
Can China transition from a world assembly line to an innovation powerhouse? It's easy to list reasons to be skeptical. There is no shortage of news stories of intellectual property rights violations by Chinese companies. 4 There is criticism that the Chinese school system puts too much weight on rote learning and not enough on creative and critical thinking. On the other hand, more optimistic examples are available, too. Tencent, the company that provides the popular communication tool, WeChat, which combines group chat, voice calls, video sharing, and financial exchanges, is generally regarded as among the most innovative internet companies in the world. Huawei, the telecom equipment producer, is said to take out more patents a year than either Apple or Cisco. The world's first quantum satellite was launched by China in August 2016. To address whether such examples of innovation are exceptions or the norm, we offer a systematic look at the data in the next section. It is hard to quantify with precision the relative contributions to total factor productivity growth from different sources. From the China Statistical Yearbook on Science and Technology, we compute and compare investment made by firms in the survey in (a) importing and digesting foreign technologies, (b) buying and digesting technologies from other domestic firms, and (c) developing their own in-house technological improvement. In 2000, the survey firms collectively spent nearly 20 percent of their technology improvement budget on importing and digesting foreign technology, about 2 percent on buying technologies from other domestic sources, and 78 percent on developing their own in-house technological improvement. Over time, the share of the first item declines, whereas the last two items expand. By 2014, the survey firms collectively spent 11 percent of their technological improvement budget on importing and digesting international technologies, about 5 percent on buying technologies from domestic sources, and the remaining 84 percent on developing their own in-house technological advancement, with the last two categories showing a significant increase over the shares in 2000 (see online Appendix Figure A1). These numbers indicate in an indirect way the improvement in the domestic innovation capacity in China's manufacturing sector.
