
Prepopulated tax forms are used in Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway. The United Kingdom is currently considering the adoption of prepopulated tax forms. Although there has been discussions about the merits of a prepopulated tax form in the United States, the State of California is the only U.S. government to have implemented them under their ready-return initiative. ReadyReturn has since been cancelled, but its primary feature-prepopulating tax forms with pre-existing information-is still available with CalFile. 7 Of course, this strategy does not preclude the possibility of increased noncompliance among taxpayers who have only verifiable income in the current period, but earn income from nonverifiable sources in the future. Confirmation-reports could also increase noncompliance by inducing taxpayers to reduce their verifiable income and increase their nonverifiable income. 8 Notice that the payment for rolling a six is zero as in Fischbacher and F€ ollmi-Heusi (2013). Because the pay-off for rolling a six is zero, we recode the outcome six to be zero. This adjustment is made to the data for all tables and figures reported in the article. This design conforms with the previous literature; for example, Fischbacher and F€ ollmi- Heusi (2013); Ruffle and Tobol (2014). The main difference between our design and that of the existing literature is in the way subjects are asked to report the outcome of the die roll. The previous literature simply asked subjects to self-report the outcome of the die roll. We add to this by also asking some subjects to provide confirmation-reports. Subjects are randomly assigned to one of seven groups; one self-report treatment and six confirmation-report treatments. The only difference between the self-report treatment and the confirmation-report treatment is in step two where subjects are asked to report the die roll outcome.
10 Following the survey, subjects are asked to complete a bonus task, which involves rolling a six-sided die and reporting the outcome. Subjects receive task instructions shown in Figures 4 and 5. They are told that the amount of the bonus payment is determined by the reported die roll according to Table 1. A link to the website random.org, which allows people to roll virtual die, is embedded into our website. Subjects are instructed to click on the link in order to roll the die, and to return to our website to report the outcome of the die roll. We make it explicitly clear that our website is not affiliated with random.org, so theSubjects took an average of nine minutes to complete both stages of the experiment, and 50% of subjects completed the experiment in less than 5 minutes and 20 seconds. 10 We created the external website for the sole purpose of hosting the survey and bonus task. The survey includes questions about road mileage user-fees, number of miles driven, age, gender, race, and education. Subjects are paid a flat participation fee for completing the survey. The experiment was done in December 2015 and January of 2016. actual outcome of the die roll is not known to us. Subjects are told that we can only observe the number that they report on our website. Subjects are shown an ID code after submitting their reported die roll, and are told to report this code on the Mturk website in order for us to process their bonus payment.
Mturk is especially advantageous for our study because subjects can be assured that we have no way of telling whether they are lying or not. Subjects complete the tasks in their own environment immune to the influence from other participants or the experimenters. Therefore, the design does not involve any social interactions. Additionally, the experiment does not include a compliance mechanism; that is, no audit, no penalty, and no opportunityfor the experimenter to observe a subjects actions. This implies that the actual and expected extrinsic costs of lying are zero. We argue that these two characteristics of the experimental design implies that the decision to be dishonest in our experiment depends only on a tradeoff between the external monetary benefits and the internal costs of the dishonest act.
