
Mayo notes that income elasticity estimates based on current income tend to be smaller than those based on permanent income. Our income elasticity may have a further downward bias due to measurement error inherent in the census asking people about current rent, but last year's income. 20 We use the household head's education as an instrument for income; education is correlated with permanent income and, we assume, uncorrelated with transient income and errors from using lagged income. Column 4 of Table 6 reports the results from a 2SLS IV estimation of the demand function of column 1. The IV-estimated price elasticity, −0.39, is only slightly larger than the OLS estimate, but the IV-estimated income elasticity, 0.53, is much higher than the OLS estimate. These estimates are more in line with past studies than were the OLS estimates. 21 Because the 18 The dependent variable in our demand equations is the natural log of reported rent less the natural log of price. In our log-log specification, subtracting the log of price from both sides alters only the coefficient on the log of price. In particular, it has no effect on the disturbances. Consequently, any instrument valid for estimating a rent regression is also valid for estimation when the dependent variable is the log of rent less the log of price. It is tempting to look for land price data to use as an instrument, given the importance of land's cost in supply. However, a valid instrument cannot be correlated with the part of an endogenous explanatory that is correlated with the disturbance term (Murray, 2006). Land values are largely locally driven, so shocks to local housing demand are likely to be reflected in local land prices. We would need an instrument with both temporal and cross-sectional variation that is uncorrelated with the endogenous component of land price. Such is hard to come by. 19 The construction cost index (http://enr.construction.com/economics) is based on "200 hours of common labor at the 20-city average of common labor rates, plus 25 cwt of standard structural steel shapes at the mill price prior to 1996 and the fabricated 20-city price from 1996, plus 1.128 tons of Portland cement at the 20-city price, plus 1,088 board-ft of 2 × 4 lumber at the 20-city price." The building cost index is based on "68.38 hours of skilled labor at the 20-city average of bricklayers, carpenters and structural iron workers rates, plus 25 cwt of standard structural steel shapes at the mill price prior to 1996 and the fabricated 20-city price from 1996, plus 1.128 tons of Portland cement at the 20-city price, plus 1,088 board ft of 2 × 4 lumber at the 20-city price." Many of the components of the index are determined in regional markets, but labor's cost is determined more locally. Since rent is one determinant of local wages among many, there remains room for concern about the construction cost index as a valid instrument. 20 The incomes in the regression have been adjusted for price differences between the census year and the preceding year, but not for any growth or fall in incomes. 21 The P-values of the F-statistics for the relevance of the instruments in the rental-housing price and income reduced form equations are 0.053 and less than 0.0005, respectively. While the instruments appear relevant, we find that the instruments are weak for rental housing's price (using Finlay and Magnuson's 2009 riv test routine in STATA, which is robust to clustered disturbances, and conditioning on the IV estimate of the income elasticity). The instruments' weakness arises because fixed-effects for city and year in the model absorb much of the variation in both the cost indices and the price of rental housing, leaving IV estimates are only for a sample of 11 cities, 22 we also report, in column 3 of Table 6, the results of an OLS regression for those 11 cities. Note that the 11-city income and price elasticities, −0.37 and 0.18, are very close to the full sample OLS estimates; the time dummies also have similar coefficients in the two regressions. The similar estimates in columns 1 and 3 encourage us to consider the IV estimates from the 11 cities as instructive for the 16 cities. 23 The estimated demographic effects are unsurprising and almost all are statistically significant. Larger households consume more housing; single-parents living with no other adult consume more housing than households with two or more adults; non-Hispanic whites consume more housing than other groups; cross-price elasticities are generally small and often statistically insignificant, though the estimate of 0.18 for transportation strikes us as unduly large; the implicit OLS estimate of the cross-price elasticity of housing with respect to the price of food is −0.31 and statistically significant; and the baby-boomers and their successors consume more housing than earlier birth cohorts. This last result is consonant with the basic theme of this paper: tastes for housing change over time. Household heads born prior to World War II have a substantially different view of what constitutes suitable housing than do household heads from the baby-boom generation and their successors; prewar households consume about 10 percent less housing than babyboomers, ceteris paribus. (We experimented with several variants of the age variable specification. The estimated cohort effects were robust to these.)
