
In addition to these thematic blocks, a most welcome feature of the book is the series of chapters intelligently inserted in each block that cover aspects of geocomputation referring to tools and software. In particular, it is refreshing to see how all of these relate to open-source projects freely available to use. The landscape where the only choices to perform geocomputational analyses were proprietary, desktop, point-and-click, GIS programs, or custom routines in low-level languages such as C or FORTRAN is no longer the norm. Instead, an entire ecosystem of open-source software, more flexible than traditional desktop GIS and more accessible than low-level computer programming has emerged. Just a few years ago, it was not very clear that one day it would be possible to carry out serious research in geocomputation using only free and/or open-source software. That the field has evolved in this direction to a point where there is a full stock of tools (Rey, 2009) that realize such a vision is greatly inspiring and it is something that the larger community of researchers who have made it possible should feel proud of. The book contains an overview of open-source software for GIS (O'Brien, chapter 17), and two other chapters are devoted to the most common programming languages used in geocomputation, R (Cheshire and Lovelace, chapter 1) and Python (Rey, chapter 14). An additional chapter (15) by Brunsdon and Singleton elaborates on the idea of reproducibility, describing the concept, why it should be adopted, and how it can be realistically implemented. This bit echoes a larger debate that relates to the very core of what Science is about and how to keep it serving society in the 21st century, and its inclusion in the book is a reassuring sign of the forward-looking attitude of the editors.
At a more global level, the book recognizes and embraces many of the "big picture" shifts occurring in the field and accommodates them throughout the book. In addition to the already mentioned new approaches to geocomputational software and tools, there is an explicit recognition that the data landscape is changing and that this will require adaptation to be able to extract the most value and knowledge. This is very clear in parts of the book, such as chapter 9 (Miller), which recognize the need to accommodate and properly represent these new forms of data. But it is also more subtly present in the choice of methods reviewed. For example, the inclusion of a chapter on self-organizing maps, a machine learning technique to reduce data dimensionality and visualize large complex datasets, is very much in that same spirit. Very welcome is also the role given by the editors to visualization. One could argue that graphics have always been an essential part of GIS and, by extension, geocomputation. However, it is easy to get lost in the complexity and computational aspects of some of the methodologies and assume that because the results come from very complicated techniques, the presentation of such results is of secondary importance. The book takes a clear stance on this and recognizes not only its importance, but its nontriviality, including chapters that walk the reader through some of the cutting-edge tools such as R, Python, or JavaScript libraries for the web.
