
Huberty (2014) focuses on what resides in the cloud, big data-large volumes of rapidly accumulating data of various kinds that registers information about individuals' behavior online. He suggests that big data is in its infancy and in order for it to live up to its commercial promise, certain shortcomings have to be first acknowledged and then addressed. He defines and challenges four previously unstated assumptions underlying big data: (1) all the individuals one cares about are included in the data, (2) one is able to identify the individuals of interest, (3) online behavior is consistent with offline behavior, and (4) individuals' representation of themselves are consistent over time. Strictly speaking, none of these four assumptions is true. Huberty defines three orders of viable big data business models. The first two of these are already well-known: the third-order business model is in essence online advertising; the second-order business model is online retailing. Huberty argues that the real changes will come from the first-order business models that are deeply embedded in, and reliant upon, data generated from and around real-world phenomena. Here, he cites products such as Nest thermostats that utilize direct home appliance data to make valuable decisions or the Google Translate function that provides a big data service directly. He believes that these types of applications are where the true value of big data can be realized. Kushida (2014) concentrates on the politics of ICT commoditization, i.e., he argues that national-level political and socio-economical dynamics influenced the rapid disruptions experienced by global ICT industries. His analysis suggests that local regulatory and technology choices played critical roles in shaping globally disruptive business models driving commoditization. Thus, global industry disruptions are shaped by a set of local political bargains particularly in the early stages of technological trajectories. In the context of mobile telecommunications, operators won the early political fights in Japan and equipment manufacturers in Europe, but eventually US-based computing-centric leaders emerged and ultimately commoditized all other players, both domestically and internationally. Even though-in the context of ICT-technological opportunities have been largely symmetric and we are often compelled to study variations in business strategies in an effort to explain competitive outcomes, Kushida's observations suggest that the underlying trajectories of global competition were shaped by national political dynamics.
