
A total of 172 students (152 in the four main reporting treatments and 20 in the strategy method treatment) participated in ten experiment sessions in 2013 and 2014 at the University of Michigan. 17 Among them, 58.7% of subjects (101) were female. No subject participated in more than one session, and the sessions lasted about an hour on average, about half of this time being spent on reading of instructions and answering comprehension questions. The experiment was programmed in z-tree (Fischbacher 2007). All instructions (for the example of the LC treatment, see Supporting Information) were neutrally framed, avoiding terms such as "cooperate," "trust," and so on. Subjects had to answer a number of control questions (see the instructions) to confirm their understanding of the experiment. Communication between subjects was not permitted. Average earnings were $20.84, including a $5 participation fee, with a standard deviation of $4.16. Figure 2 summarizes key subject behaviors and beliefs, with panels (A) (at left), (B) (upper right), and (C) lower right displaying cooperation decisions, decisions to report defectors, and decisions to report cooperators, respectively. We begin with our main focus, costly reporting. A glance at panel (B) makes clear that there was much costly reporting, but overwhelmingly reporting of defectors by cooperators, as predicted. Focusing on the left panel of 17. Sessions were conducted by Kamei while he was Assistant Professor at Bowling Green State University. All subjects were recruited from the University of Michigan experimental lab's subject pool using solicitation messages via ORSEE (Online Recruitment System for Economic Experiments). We aimed to recruit 20 participants to each session, but actual numbers varied somewhat due to differing show-up rates, averaging 17.2. Figure 2B, we see that some 45%-65% of cooperators who encountered a defector chose to report when costly, and that reporting occurred considerably more often (almost 90% report) at cost zero (NC treatment) than at positive costs (an overall average of 58.6% report in LC, MC, and HC). The remainder of this panel and the panel below it, in Figure 2C, show that there is also some, but considerably less, costly reporting of cooperators by cooperators and of defectors by defectors, and no costly reporting of cooperators by defectors. Overall, an average of 8.0% of subjects in the cooperator-cooperator, defectorcooperator, and defector-defector situations choose to report.
