
I collect data on how subjects acquire information about risky choices in both real and hypothetical settings using process-tracing software called Mouselab. On average, there are no significant differences across settings in the amount of time subjects take to make a choice or the completeness of the information they acquire. Subjects also acquire information in sequences consistent with an integration model of decision-making, such as expected utility theory or prospect theory. I do not find significant differences in risk preferences across settings, on average, but I do find that subjects' risk preferences are related to the completeness of the information that they acquire and where they start their information acquisition. (JEL C91, D80, D83) (Levitt and List 2007) Kahneman and Tversky (1979, 265) (Battalio, Kagel, and Jiranyakul 1990; Harrison 2006; Holt and Laury 2002, 2005) (Beattie and Loomes 1997; Kühberger, Schulte-Mecklenbeck, and Perner 2002; Wiseman and Levin 1996) Taylor (2013) cognitive ability tend to make choices exhibiting hypothetical bias. 2 These contradictory results have yet to be explained. Camerer and Hogarth (1999) illustrate that real incentives are likely to alter behavior when the task involved depends on the subject's effort level. But the choices that are typically used to measure risk aversion are designed to measure preferences, not effort. Moreover, while it is clear how economic incentives can cause individuals to misrepresent their willingness to pay for clean air in a survey that could influence environmental policy, there is not an obvious economic motivation for why individuals would systematically misrepresent their risk preferences so that they appear more risk tolerant when they make choices with hypothetical consequences. 3 This study uses a method of process tracing to explore whether individuals acquire information about the risky choices in the commonly used Holt and Laury multiple-price list (HL MPL) differently when the choices have hypothetical monetary consequences rather than real monetary consequences (Holt and Laury 2002). It is possible that individuals may attend to the information in hypothetical choices differently than real choices, and several studies have demonstrated that how individuals acquire information can be related to their decision-making. For instance, Costa-Gomes and Crawford (2006) show that simplified searches are correlated with deviations from equilibrium in a two-person guessing game, and Caplin, Dean, and Martin (2011) find that search patterns can affect subjects' decisions conditional on choice complexity.
There is no doubt that subjects are willing to devote at least some time to the consideration of hypothetical choices. Psychologists frequently rely exclusively on hypothetical decisions to study behavior. Some of these studies have used Mouselab or other process-tracing techniques, and they demonstrate that individuals do spend time considering hypothetical choices (Willemsen and Johnson 2010). The question of interest here, however, is whether information 2. Taylor (2013) focuses on the relationship between cognitive ability, risk aversion, and incentives using data from this same experiment.
More recent studies that have explored this question employed tasks and choices more akin to the types of choices typically used by economists to measure risk preferences (Arieli, Ben-Ami, and Rubinstein 2011; Glöckner and Herbold 2011; Johnson, Schulte-Mecklenbeck, and Willem- sen 2008). 5 Interestingly, these studies have reached contradictory conclusions. For example, Johnson, Schulte-Mecklenbeck, and Willemsen (2008) and Glöckner and Herbold (2011) find information acquisition patterns consistent with integration models, but Arieli, Ben-Ami, and Rubinstein (2011) do not. The conflicting results are not due to differences in how the process data were collected. All three studies used hypothetical payoffs, and Glöckner and Herbold (2011) and Arieli, Ben-Ami, and Rubinstein (2011) used eye-tracking technology, while Johnson, Schulte-Mecklenbeck, and Willemsen (2008) used Mouselab.
The following section briefly describes the method used to observe subject information acquisition, as well as provides a detailed explanation of the experimental design and the 5. Glöckner and Betsch (2008) used a method that they call the "open mouselab method," which does not actually mask the information and, instead, asked a subject to move the mouse to the piece of information about which she is thinking. They find that information search is more consistent with an integrative model using this method.
I use a software program called Mouselab to observe how subjects acquire information about risky choices. Mouselab is a method of processtracing used by psychologists for nearly three decades, and economists more recently, because it is lower-cost alternative to eye-tracking and provides analogous measures (Costa-Gomes and Crawford 2006; Costa-Gomes, Crawford, and Broseta 2001; Gabaix et al. 2006; Johnson et al. 2002; Payne, Bettman, and Johnson 1988; Reutskaja et al. 2011). The software enables the researcher to "mask" selected information so that a subject must move the computer pointer over the attribute to reveal it. In this experiment, the probabilities and payoffs (the attributes) of each gamble were masked and the individual was required to "unmask" the attributes by scrolling over the cell to view it. Once the mouse pointer leaves the cell, the attribute is hidden again. By requiring a subject to unmask the gambles' attributes and allowing them to view only one piece of information at a time, individuals' strategies for acquiring information about risky choices is observable in this stylized context. 6 An example of how each pair of gambles was presented to subjects in the experiment is shown in Figure 1. 7
