
The estimation method is a Multivariate Probit maximum likelihood in which the decisions to engage in formal and informal linkages with a set of external organizations are estimated simultaneously. 5 Formal or informal linkages data are binary but they have as many 'dimensions' as the number of external partner/ sources. The choices are not mutually exclusive. This method allows the simultaneous estimation of more than one binary probit equation with correlated disturbances. By allowing disturbances across equations to be freely correlated, the method allows to test for the correlation between dependent variables conditional on a certain number of common explanatory variables (Galia and Legros 2004, p. 1193), thus providing insights into the extent of complementary of substitution between them. A positive (negative) correlation of the error terms between two equations is taken as an indication of complementarity (substitution) between the two dependent variables.The data used in this paper come from the Community Innovation Survey 3 (CIS 3) that investigates the process of innovation development by firms in the period 1998-2000, in four European countries: The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the UK. The CIS survey asks firms about the type of innovation introduced in the 3 years preceding the survey, the sources of information they drew upon, their formal collaborative arrangements in order to innovate, as well as their expenditures and investments in several types of innovation activities. The process of innovation in services and in manufacturing has been 4 Fundamental-process activities include chemicals, plastic and rubber industries. Complexproducts include transport equipment. Product-engineering include machinery and equipment industries. Science-based activities include represented pharmaceutical and electrical and optical industries. Continuous-process includes all the other manufacturing activities. This is also the reference category. 5 More specifically, the estimation method employed here is based on the 'recursive conditioning simulator' implemented for STATA by Cappellari and Jenkins (2003). 6 As a robustness check we have also performed for each country 12 separate Probit regressions one for each type of linkage. Results in terms of sign and significance of the estimators of multivariate and binary Probit are very similar. These results are available upon request from the corresponding author.Firm's largest market is international found to be quite different (Miozzo and Soete 2001; Cainelli et al. 2006). Therefore, the analysis undertaken in this paper focuses on manufacturing firms with more than nine employees. As the CIS survey does not collect data on the sources of information and collaborative arrangements for noninnovators, we cannot proceed, as we wished, with the analysis for the noninnovative firms. Thus all the firms in our sample are innovative in the sense that they have introduced at least one innovation in the period covered by the survey. Our sample includes a total of 3963 firms (1633 firms for The Netherlands, 1005 firms for the UK, 559 for Sweden, and 766 for Norway).
