
Determination of the motivation level and the analysis of motivation factors in the enterprises in a perticular time were carried out through a questionnaire which consists of 30 closed questions (Hitka 2009: 149). The questionnaire was divided into two parts. Sociodemographic and quali fication characteristics of employees were searched in the first part. Basic data about respondents relating to their age, sex, seniority, completed education and job position were obtained in this part. The second part consisted of individual motivation factors through which information about work environment, working conditions, applied appraisal and reward system, about personnel management, health and social care system and system of employee benefits as well as information about employee satisfaction or dissatisfac tion, value orientation, relation to work and enterprise or coworkers' relationship in the enterprise can be found out. Motivation factors are in alphabetical order not to affect respondents's decision. In the questionnaire respondents evaluated individual motivation factors by one of the five levels of importance from a predefined 5point rating scale, 5 -the most important and 1 -unimportant (Table 1) from a predefined evaluation scale (Table 1).Each motivation factor was marked by employees with one of five types of importance for required as well as for cur rent conditions. The required condition can be defined as an idea of employees how the motivation should look like, i.e. what would motivate them to increase their performance. The current conditions represents the employees' opinion how they are satisfied with current motivation in the enterprise. The questionnaires were evaluated using the programmeSTATISTICA 7 (Statsoft 2004). Descriptive statistics was used to describe the primary sampling unit. Statistical character istics, which compressed information about studied primary sampling units into smaller number of numerical character istics and made mutual comparison of sampling units easier, were computed for each motivation factor. Each motivation factor was described in summary by basic characteristics of size and variability of quantitative features -average x  , stand ard deviations s x and coefficients of variation. Subsequently the results of the enterprises were compared.
