
The Expert Choice software was used to make pilot calculations. This software opens wide opportunities for its users. However, it has drawbacks as well. The main drawback of this software is that it is adjusted for use in stationary work places. The model of indicator hierarchy for construction contract evaluation developed this way is just an extra feature of this software. Meanwhile, users without special software cannot use the developed system of indicators. True, that this system provides a possibility to publish the hierarchical model in Internet; however, only Expert Choice users can make full use of such a model. Besides, this software has other drawbacks characteristic of other stationary software: limited number of workstations, attachment to a specific workstation, little opportunities to share experience with other users, etc.
One of the most important opportunities to develop decision support systems is an increase of their integration. First, a system must be developed inside the organisation, and such system with a simple user interface would provide access to and exchange of information among company's employees. A clear link between the decision support system and various data must be provided and it must facilitate installation of various means for resource allocation. In this case, accessibility of the system can be achieved by using standard graphic user interface. Such standardisation is the main reason why Microsoft Windows and related products have become widely distributed so fast. The main problem of decision support systems is an interface with additional means that is difficult to implement. From the perspective of a user of a decision support system, the main criterion when a system for work is being selected is the simplicity of its user interface.
Another opportunity to improve decision support systems is improvement of accessibility to documents and their management both inside and outside of an organisation. New search and structuring technologies such as underlining of an idea, hypertext and multimedia have been rapidly developed both for scientific research and commercial purposes. One of the most successful examples thereof is groupware, such as Lotus Notes, which emerged recently and is growing fast. The world becomes a uniform connected whole, which is the basis for further development of decision support systems.
3. Three CCAs have been selected for calculations and evaluation provided as an example. The evaluation has shown that the first variant is the most favourable to a client, and having analysed graphic information, it is possible to determine possibilities for improvement of agreements. Software Expert Choice, which has been used in this process, is well adjusted to development of a good hierarchy, to determination of criteria significance, to evaluation and analysis of the evaluation results.
4. The calculations provided as an example enable the following conclusion: although the aforementioned software has a number of advantages, several main disadvantages can also be distinguished. The software is designed for stationary workstations. Thus the developed hierarchical model of CCA evaluation criteria can be only an extramodule of the aforementioned software. Whereas users who do not have specialised software cannot use the developed system of criteria. Although the system foresees a possibility to place hierarchy models in the Internet, only Expert Choice software users can use them to full extent. Considering the results of the analysis, a specialised decision support system should be developed for CCA evaluation; the system would implement advantages of an Internet-based system.
