
CRISPRs' in silico analyses started in 1995 (2) but no specific stand-alone CRISPR software tool was created. Several software were used by different authors to identify these particular repeats but usually a manual discard of background was necessary, and generally some CRISPR clusters were missed or neglected, especially the shortest one (less than three motifs). This is the case, for example, of Tandem Repeat Finder (17) when considering a motif (DR þ spacer) as a degenerate repeat (10,18), or Locating Uniform poly-Nucleotide Areas (LUNA), a program for finding degenerate repeats in microbial genomes on a desktop computer. The repeats can be filtered using several parameters including length, distance and level of conservation. LUNA was used especially for finding CRISPRs in archaea (4,15). Another program, Patscan (19) a pattern-matching tool that searches sequences fitting the introduced pattern, was applied toidentify CRISPRs containing at least three (20) or four exact direct repeats (8). PYGRAM (21) is a visualization program browsing all the repeats in the submitted genomic sequence and showing perfectly conserved palindromic repeats as pyramids. The PYGRAM program is mostly efficient in visually displaying large CRISPRs (CRISPRs with as many as seven motifs are considered as being very short in this work) since they will be recognized as a concentration of horizontal bars referring to a group of co-occurring repeats that differ by only a few nucleotides. Finally, Haft et al. (12) used REPfind (http://bibiserv.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/reputer/), a part of the REPuter package (22-24) and BLASTN to identify smaller repeat clusters.
These programs are the most used tools in CRISPR detection, although none of them is especially conceived for this purpose. They require further manual manipulations to eliminate background data (tandem repeats for example) and importantly, do not define accurately the DR consensus (due to errors on the boundaries). Recently, two CRISPR-dedicated software tools were proposed, CRT (http://www.room220.com/crt) and PILER-CR (25). Both of them run fast and perform well in finding CRISPRs. However, CRT results in a considerable background since tandem repeats are considered as putative CRISPRs and in addition, the same CRISPR is sometimes detected more than once with different consensus DRs. PILER-CR has also some drawbacks since it often misidentifies the DR boundaries and omits the truncated DR.
In the first step, maximal repeats are found by the software Vmatch (http://www.vmatch.de/), the upgrade of REPuter (22-24). Vmatch is based on a comprehensive implementation of enhanced suffix arrays (27) which provides the power of suffix trees with lower space requirements. A one nucleotide mismatch is allowed permitting minimal CRISPRs with a single nucleotide mutation between DRs to be found. Hereafter, the obtained maximal repeats are grouped to define regions of possible CRISPRs with a display of consensus DR candidates related to each cluster.
