
The sequence similarity of the genes isolated in this study was determined using the online BLAST (Altschul et al., 1997) and BLAST 2 sequence (Tatusova and Madden, 1999) programs on the National Center for Biotechnology Information BLAST website (National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD). For sequence comparison throughout the BLAST 2 program, two additional parameters were introduced, Qcov and Scov, which allows us to take into account the difference of the length between sequences. Query coverage (Qcov) is the ratio of length of the match by length of the query sequence. This value indicates the part of the query sequence covered by the alignment. Similarly, Subject coverage (Scov) was calculated as the ratio of length of the match by length of the subject or target length, and indicates the part of the subject or target sequence covered by the alignment.
All sequence alignments and phylogenetic tree construction were performed using the ClustalX algorithm with the Gonnet residue weights (Thompson et al., 1997). For XTHs genes, the pair-wise alignment parameters used included a gap opening penalty of 35 and a gap extension penalty of 0.75. For multiple alignments, the gap opening penalty was 15, with a gap extension penalty of 0.3 and the delay divergent sequences was set at 25%. The consensus tree was drawn using the TREE VIEW program (Page, 1996). Search motifs in the promoter regions of MA-PME genomic sequences was found by screening the PLACE (Prestridge, 1991; Higo et al., 1999) and PLANT CARE (Lescot et al., 2002) databases. In silico prediction of 5#-and 3#-UTR regions of MA-PME genes and prediction of signal peptides were performed using EuGène 3.2 with rice parameters (Foissac et al., 2008) and SignalP 3.0 (Bendtsen et al., 2004) programs, respectively.
Pectolytic genes examined in his study were differentially expressed during ripening and in both the control and drop zones (Fig. 3). MaPEL1 and MaPEL2, and MaPG4 genes were the most expressed genes compared with the others. Among the three MaPME genes, MaPME1 was the least expressed in peel tissue compared with the other two. Its expression decreased during ripening in both zones (Fig. 3A). By contrast, MaPME2 was the most expressed in the drop zone. In the control zone, its mRNA level remained Fig. 2. Phylogenetic alignment of banana, tomato, Arabidopsis, and rice xyloglucan endotransglycosylase/hydrolases (XTHs). The regions in common between the XTH polypeptide sequences of banana (MaXTHn and MaXETn), tomato (SlXTHn), Arabidopsis (AtXTHn), and rice were used to contruct a phylogenetic tree using the ClustalX program. The resulting slanted cladogram was visualized with the TREEVIEW program (Page, 1996). The sequences were grouped into two distinct groups (I-II). The numbers 1 to 4 indicate the four families groups identified in tomato and Arabidopsis and applied to a broad range of plant species (Nishitani, 1997; Campbell and Braam, 1999; Rose et al., 2002; Saladié et al., 2006). The tomato and Arabidopsis thaliana XTH sequences used in this study are available online at http://labs.plantbio.cornell.edu/XTH/genes.htm. The rice XTHs were retrieved from the Rice genome research program, and polygalacturonase (C) in peel tissue sampled from the middle area (control zone) and rupture area (drop zone). The y-axis represents the relative fold difference in mRNA level and was calculated using the 2 -DDCt formula (Livak and Schmittgen, 2001) with actin as reference.
