
Electronic Health Records (EHR) represent the central pillar of eHealth strategies worldwide, since they offer the capacity to support patient care, quality improvement, population health surveillance and research. 2 Until recently the topics of EHR and 'Consumer Health Informatics' tended to be considered separately; discussions of the former being mainly centred on healthcare institutions. Across North America and Europe there has been a gradual realization of the synergies between these two areas, manifested in the growing attention that is being paid to Personal Health Records (PHR) in both the scientific and policy literatures. The PHR is a complex construct and many have bemoaned the lack of consensus on its precise definition. 3 The central feature is a patient-accessible Electronic Health Record, although models vary in the source and controller of the information (healthcare provider or patient; single or multiple providers), the medium (e.g. web, kiosk, USB) and the additional functionalities associated with the software (e.g. education, prescription reordering, provider messaging, decision support). 4,5 This report is concerned with one particular aspect of the PHR concept, namely online access by patients to provider-generated information that is specific to their health history and current conditions, and held in the computer systems of primary healthcare centres. We refer to this as Record Access, in line with the language adopted in recent guidelines from the Royal College of General Practitioners, 6 although similar applications have also been characterised as 'tethered Personal Health Records'. 7 The idea of patients accessing their own health records is not a new one. 8 However, the accessibility afforded by the Internet, and the capacity of emerging PHR to integrate personal health applications with provider-owned record systems, creates interesting new challenges and research questions.
ii Reflecting this history, the origins of the PHR movement in the UK lie with a small number of enthusiastic GPs who pioneered record sharing with patients using computer printouts and portable downloads, latterly partnering with GP systems suppliers to provide waiting-room kiosks and online portals. 10 This has yielded favourable user responses and positive impacts on knowledge, mutual trust and record accuracy, despite some concerns over security and confidentiality 11,12,13 This ground-up approach sits in stark contrast to the top-down one used to introduce patient access to the NHS Summary Care Record via 'HealthSpace', which has so far met with limited success. 14 Despite the enthusiastic response of early adopters, Record Access services remain uncommon in UK primary care and, given the caveats around privacy and liability indicated in the RCGP guidelines, more evidence is needed if they are to i This term has been used to describe emerging systems that offer Record Access as part of a broader suite of online consumer tools for administrative tasks such as appointment booking. ii The UK has a single National Health Service in which the GP acts as the first point of care, the conduit to specialist services and the coordinator of community-based follow-up. As a result they generally receive core documentation pertaining to their patients from other parts of the service, although more detailed records will remain with the specialist host. become mainstream. Questions also remain about the feasibility of integrating Record Access into professional workflow in light of the potential administrative requirements. This study aimed to examine how practices had integrated record access during the course of a one year pilot, and to identity human, organizational or technical barriers warranting attention prior to wider rollout. It also sought to explore whether some of the benefits demonstrated in US studies of PHR, such as improved provider-patient relationships, patient self-care and reduced consulting time, 15 were also being felt in British health centres adopting record access.
