
The HRQoL scores that form the raw data for this analysis are rank-order in nature. Means and SDs of the scores were estimated using generalised estimating equations for illustrative purposes only. Physical and mental composite scores were calculated in the modified SF-36 according to the SF-12 scoring guidelines. 16 17 Group comparison and covariate effect size calculation, OR (with 95% CIs and p values) were estimated using repeated measures of ordinal logistic regression, with covariates selected for inclusion by backward stepwise regression ( p-value for exclusion 0.22) from maternal age, Hb, ferritin, Socio-Economic Indexes for Areas ( based on the Collector District of residence of mothers), quality of sleep, use and duration of breastfeeding, hospitalisation of the baby, baby gender and mode of delivery. This included randomisation group covariate interactions in the starting model with exclusion of those interactions using the above criteria. When iron status was selected for inclusion in the model, the association between iron status (ferritin) and HRQoL was reported independently of the trial treatment group. p Values were corrected for multiple comparisons where necessary by the Holm method. The effect of intravenous iron versus oral iron on time of cessation of breastfeeding was compared by estimation of the HR with 95% CIs and p values by Cox proportional hazards regression adjusted for covariates selected for inclusion by backward stepwise regression ( p-value for exclusion 0.22). The time to cessation of breast-feeding was taken from the subject's baby growth booklet for all participants. Neonatal growth in the treatment groups was compared by multivariate third-order polynomial regression as an approximation to APEG growth assessment. The iron status variables used in the multivariate regression models were selected by stepwise regression. All HRQoL statistical analyses were performed using Stata SE for Windows V.11.1 (StataCorp, College Station, Texas, USA).
