
In total, more than 20 000 human pseudogenes and their cognate genes were obtained from the Ensembl Genome Browser (Ensembl 63, GRCH
According to the study by Poliseno et al. (17), pseudogenes PTENP1 and KRAS1P act as a 'miRNA decoy', binding to and thereby reducing the effective cellular concentration ofmiRNAs, therefore resulting their cognate genes to escape miRNA-mediated repression. In this study, we analyse the relationships between TPG and its cognate gene with miRNA decoys mechanism to examine miRNA-target interactions (MTIs) by performing a pipeline. First, the parental genes were obtained by mapping the TPGs and genomic sequences with the BLAST (51) program. The MTIs with TPGs and parental genes were then investigated using our previous approach (41). The MFE threshold was À20 kcal/mol with a score more than or equal to 150 for miRanda and default parameters for TargetScan and RNAhybrid. Finally, the TPGs and their cognates co-regulated by miRNAs were obtained. The miRNA and 3'UTR sequences were obtained from miRBase R18 (29, 30) and Ensembl Genome Browser release 63 (26), respectively. Analysis results indicated that 874 miRNAs with MFE À20 and Score ! 150 interact with many possible target sites in 248 TPGs and their cognate genes and might potentially co-regulate this pair of TPG and parental gene (Supplementary File 2).
In the search gateway, the TPG ID, Ensembl ID, TPG symbol and parental gene symbol are allowed for further analysis. Figure 4 displays the interface of output results with the search a particular TPG ID/Ensembl ID/TPG symbol/parental gene symbol. The interface contains the general information of TPG, miRNA regulators, gene expression profiles and TPG-derived esiRNAs.
In pseudoMap, various databases are integrated and maintained with MySQL (http://www.mysql.com/) relational database management system. While operating on an Apache HTTP server (http://www.apache.org/) and PHP (http://www.php.net/) on a Linux operation system (http:// www.linux.com), pseudoMap was constructed using the Smarty template engine (http://www.smarty.net). Based on PHP, JavaScript (http://www.javascriptsource.com/), CSS (http://www.w3schools.com/css/) and HTML (http://www. w3schools.com/html/) languages, the web interface enables dynamic MySQL queries with user-friendly graphics. Above software are open source technologies.
Comparison with other previous databases related to pseudogenes A few databases have been constructed to explore pseudogenes. In particular, PseudoGene database (53) identifies pseudogenes using various computational methods in genomes; HOPPSIGEN (54) represents the homologous processed pseudogenes shared between the mouse and human genomes that contains location information and potential function; as a web-based system, PseudoGeneQuest (55) identifies novel human pseudogenes based on a userprovided protein sequence; in addition, the University of Iowa's UI Pseudogenes website contains human pseudogenes and the candidates for gene conversion (56). However, these databases focus on automatic detection of pseudogenes by using a variety of homology-based approaches. Our database, pseudoMap, aims at providing comprehensive resource for genome-wide identifying the functions and regulators of human TPGs. In briefly, there are three major differentiating features from currently public databases of pseudogenes. First, pseudoMap elucidates the relationships of TPG and its cognate gene with miRNA decoys mechanism. Second, to explore the interaction of TPG and its parental gene, pseudoMap provides the gene expression profiles of TPG and its cognate gene in various experimental conditions. Third, pseudoMap curates the TPG-derived esiRNAs, which supported by deep sequencing data, as well as their interacting gene targets in the human genome. Table 3 lists the detailed comparisons of pseudoMap with other previous databases related to pseudogenes.
