
The surgical protocol was the same for both groups, besides the type of the alignment guide for the distal femoral resection (extramedullary/intramedullary). In particular, all patients received epidural and spinal anesthesia and the preoperative and postoperative procedures and surgical techniques were identical. Patient-controlled analgesia was implemented postoperatively using a 100 mL mixture of 90 mL of 0.125% bupivacaine and 0.5 mg/10 mL fentanyl via an epidural catheter. All operations were performed by the same surgeon (first author) using a medial parapatellar approach introduced by Insall. The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was removed and the same PCL-sacrificing prosthesis (Scorpio NRG, Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI, USA) was implanted in all knees. The patella was replaced, and the prosthetic components were cemented in all cases. Lateral release was not performed in all patients. Two markers indicating the center of the femoral head and the anterior margin of the greater trochanter were firmly attached to the patient's skin in the EM group prior to surgery so the surgeon could palpate the markers and identify the mechanical axis of the lower limb during surgery. A femoral cutting block was aligned along the coronal and axial axes using new surgical equipment 16) and the two markers. The distal femur was cut without placing a rod into the medullary canal (Fig. 1). The angle between the anatomical axis and the mechanical axis of the femur in the IM group was measured using a PACS system on a preoperative anterioposterior long leg standing radiograph. An intramedullary alignment rod was inserted based on the preoperative measurements, and the distal femur was cut. The entrance hole for the alignment rod in the femoral medullary canal was sealed with bone fragments before inserting the implant. An extramedullary alignment guide was used in both groups for proximal tibial cutting. A drainage tube was placed in the intra-articular space. After wound closure, a compression dressing using gauze and a bandage was applied, and the tourniquet was deflated. Drainage was discontinued from immediately after surgery until 2 hours after tourniquet deflation. All drains were removed 24 hours after surgery. Blood transfusion was performed when hemoglobin was <8 g/dL or when dyspnea, palpitation, dizziness, or abnormal vital signs were noted even if the hemoglobin was 8-10 g/dL. Rivaroxaban, an oral anticoagulant, was administered from immediately after the drain removal until the postoperative week 2 to prevent thromboembolic disorders. The anticoagulant was discontinued if hemarthrosis due to intra-articular bleeding was present or effusion from the surgical wound continued. Tests for thromboembolic disorders were not performed unless clinical symptoms appeared. Statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS ver. 12.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). A p-value <0.05 was consideredValues are presented as means with standard deviations in parentheses.statistically significant. The continuous variables, drained blood volume and preoperative hemoglobin level, were analyzed using Student's t-test. The hemoglobin level at 5 days after surgery and the hemoglobin drop (hemoglobin level at 5 days after surgeryhemoglobin level before surgery) were compared between groups using analysis of covariance. The prevalence of allogeneic transfusion, a categorical variable, was compared between the groups using Fisher's exact test. Additionally, the presence of other related symptoms were also investigated, including the duration of effusion, subcutaneous hematomas, hemarthrosis, hemorrhagic complications such as infections, painful leg swelling, acute chest pain, dyspnea, lower limb thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism.
