
The mean and standard deviation (SD) or median and interquartile range (IQR) were reported as appropriate for continuous data after checking data for normality using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Independent sample t test, Mann-Whitney U test, or x 2 tests were used to compare perioperative differences between groups. Pearson correlation analysis was used to assess the test-retest reliability of the cognitive function tests between baseline and follow-up sessions. 20 We modeled individual serial changes in cognitive function tests using mixedeffects linear regressions by assuming different random intercepts for each participant and adjusted for baseline intelligence quotient (IQ), age, gender, and any previous exposure to anesthesia. List-wise deletion was used to deal with missing completely at random follow-up data; it has been recommended that tests with missing data should not be used for evaluation of cognitive function. 21 The primary outcome was incidence of POCD. This was estimated from the Z-scores methodology that requires data from the control group outlined by Rasmussen et al. 21 We used 2 criteria to define the direction of change (either decline or improvement) in the postoperative cognitive function in each child. POCD was defined as either at least 2 of the 4 cognitive functions tests with an individual Z-score À1.96 or a combined Z-score of À1.96. Similarly, postoperative cognitive improvement (POCI) was defined as either at least 2 of the 4 cognitive functions tests with an individual Z-score !1.96 or a combined Z-score of !1.96. To identify whether the postoperative cognitive decline in performance in these children represented a true deterioration or random variation, we used multinominal logistic regression to estimate the relative risk ratio of POCD to POCI between groups (POCD/POCI-RRR) 20 after adjusting for IQ, age, and gender. All analyses were performed using STATA 14.0 (StataCorp, College Station, TX). The level of significance was set at P < 0.05.
Based on pilot data of 7 subjects (3 controls and 4 patients), a repeated measures analysis of variance design of 2 groups (control and anesthesia) measured at 3 times, we calculated that 110 subjects in each group (total n ¼ 220) would be required to detect a difference of a small effect size of 0.20 at 90% power with correlation between repeated measures of 0.70 at 5% significance level (nQuery Advisor 4.0, Janet D Elashoff 2000).
