
Forty 3-month-old intact Sprague-Dawley rats (250-300 g) were purchased from the Laboratory Animal Research Unit, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. They were acclimatized at the local vivarium for one week (room temperature, 12-hour light/dark cycle). The rats were housed singly in plastic cages with free access to tap water and standard rat chow (Gold Coin, Port Klang, Malaysia). They were stratified into five groups using random numbers generated by statistical software. Orchidectomy was performed in the orchidectomized, AnTT, and testosterone groups. A shamoperated group underwent similar surgical treatment but their testes were not removed. The baseline group was sacrificed without undergoing any surgical treatment or intervention. The AnTT group received AnTT daily (60 mg/kg body weight, oral gavage) for 8 weeks, while the other groups received an equal volume of the olive oil vehicle. The testosterone group received weekly testosterone enanthate injections (7 mg/kg body weight, intramuscularly) for 8 weeks while the other groups received an equal volume of the peanut oil vehicle. Treatment was initiated a week after orchidectomy. The weight of each rat was monitored weekly using a digital scale (Tanita Model 1,144, Tokyo, Japan) and recorded to the nearest 1 g. At the end of the treatment period, the rats were euthanized using diethyl ether (HmbG Chemicals ® , Hamburg, Germany), after which their femoral and tibial bones were harvested. After the soft tissue was removed, the bones were either stored in 10% formalin solution for histomorphometric and μCT evaluation, or at -70°C for study of gene expression. The study protocol was reviewed and approved by the animal ethics committee at Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (Code FP/FAR/2012/IMA/18-July/445-July-2012-April-2014).Contouring was performed using a semiautomated method to select the trabecular region. Three-dimensional reconstruction and evaluation were performed using Scanco software (Scanco Medical) to measure the following bone parameters: trabecular bone volume, trabecular number, trabecular separation, trabecular thickness, structural model index, and connectivity density.
The region assessed was the secondary spongiosa in the metaphyseal region, which is 3-7 mm from the lowest point of the growth plate and 1 mm from the lateral cortex. Structural parameters were investigated by an automated method using an image analyzer (MediaCybernetics Image Pro-Plus, Rockville, MD, USA). Dynamic parameters were investigated using a fluorescence microscope (Nikon Eclipse 80i, Tokyo, Japan) and measured manually using a Weibel grid. The structural parameters measured included trabecular bone volume, thickness, number, and separation. Dynamic parameters measured included single-labeled surface, double-labeled surface, mineralizing rate, mineral apposition rate, and bone formation rate.
Distribution of the data was assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk test and all data were found to be normally distributed. Oneway analysis of variance, with either Tukey's or Dunnett's T3 as the post hoc test, was used to detect significant differences in the variables of interest between the study groups. All data are presented as the mean and standard error of the mean. P-values 0.05 were considered to be statistically significant. The statistical analysis was performed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences version 16.0 software (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL, USA).
