
Initially, samples from eight study subjects were analyzed: four samples from healthy controls and four pre-high-flux hemodialysis samples. Whole blood was drawn into heparin tubes (Vacutainer, Becton Dickinson, Oxford, UK) and then incubated with different concentrations of stimulators (formylmethionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine [fMLP] and anti-Fcε receptor I [FcεRI] antibody) to achieve the optimal concentration for a maximum basophil activation response (21). fMLP was diluted in RPMI 1640 medium (Sigma Aldrich, Taufkirchen, Germany) and concentrations of 10 −6 to 5 × 10 −5 M were prepared. Anti-FcεRI antibody (3 μg/mL) (Bühlmann Laboratories, Schönenbuch, Switzerland) was diluted (1:3) in stimulation buffer (Bühlmann Laboratories) and concentrations of 0.11 μg/mL to 3 μg/mL were prepared accordingly. Whole blood (100 μL) was distributed among polystyrene tubes (Falcon, Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) and incubated with the relevant concentrations of fMLP and anti-FcεRI antibody at 37°C for 25 min to initiate the degranulation of basophils and histamine release. Subsequently the cells were stained with 18 μL of anti-CD203c-PE and CD63-FITC antibodies (Beckman Coulter, Paris, France) and incubated for 25 min at 4°C. Following lysis of red blood cells (RBCs) with 2 mL cold isotonic solution (154 mM NH4Cl, 10 mM KHCO3 supplemented with 0.1 mM EDTA, pH 7.2), samples were centrifuged for 5 min at 300 × g at 4°C; cells were then washed once with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) before being resuspended in 300 μL of cold PBS and subsequently analyzed. The surface expression of CD203c and CD63 on basophils was analyzed by flow cytometry (Navios, Beckman Coulter, Hialeah, FL, USA). Basophils were gated according to their granularity on side scatter and expression of CD203c Fig. 1a). The percentage of CD63-positive cells within the total basophil population was calculated as shown in Fig. 1b. Data were analyzed with Kaluza analysis software (Beckman Coulter).
Flow cytometric analysis of surface CD11b, active CD11b, and CD88 expression on neutrophils Whole blood was drawn into EDTA tubes (Vacutainer, Becton Dickinson) before and after the hemodialysis procedure with high-and low-flux dialyzers, respectively. Blood (150 μL) was distributed in polystyrene tubes and mixed with 2 mL cold isotonic solution to lyse the erythrocytes. After 5 min, the tubes were centrifuged for 5 min at 300 × g at 4°C, the supernatant was discarded, and the cells were washed with PBS. The tubes were divided into three groups: the unstimulated cells, the cells stimulated with increased temperature (+37°C), and the cells stimulated with IL-8 (CXCL8) (Research & Diagnostics Systems, Abingdon, UK). RPMI 1640 medium (200 μL) mixed with 10% fetal calf serum was added to all the tubes. IL-8-stimulated cells were stimulated with a final concentration of 100 ng/mL IL-8 (22). The unstimulated cells were incubated on ice, while the stimulated cells were incubated at 37°C for 30 min. The tubes were washed with PBS, and cells were resuspended in 100 μL of cold PBS. Antibodies were added to the relevant tubes-anti-CD11b-FITC (Beckman Coulter; 20 μL) and anti-CD11b-PE (activated form, clone CBRM1/5, BioLegend Inc., San Diego, CA, USA; 20 μL), as well as corresponding isotype controls (IgG1). The tubes were incubated for 30 min at 4°C. The cells were washed with PBS, resuspended in 350 μL of cold PBS, and subsequently analyzed. Data acquisition was conducted by flow cytometer, and data were analyzed using the Kaluza analysis software.
Scatter plots were prepared using GraphPad Prism 5 (GraphPad Software, La Jolla, CA, USA), representing the range with whiskers and the median as a middle line. Statistical analysis was done inGraphPad Prism 5. As the study population was not normally distributed, comparison between the groups was performed by the nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test. Significant differences between groups were analyzed using the post hoc Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test. A P value of <0.05 was considered significant.
