
FDG-PET scanning was performed to detect orthotopic tumours. The 18 F-FDG was produced and provided by Skåne University Hospital Cyclotron Unit. For PET-imaging, mice were intravenously injected with approximately 30 MBq of FDG and were imaged 1 h after administration using a preclinical PET/CT-scanner (Bioscan, USA). Mice were anaesthetised using 2-3% isofluorane and were placed in a temperature regulated animal chamber (Minerve, Bioscan, USA) with the temperature set to 37 C (Minerve multistation controller unit) during the scanning. During the acquisitions, respiration was monitored on PC (SA Instruments, Inc, USA) and anaesthesia levels were adjusted accordingly. CT scanning was performed using the X-ray exposure of 600 ms and 177 lA, and the zoom level set to medium zoom. The CT images were scanned with 180 projections/rotation, pitch 1.0 and a binning of 1:4. The CT reconstruction was performed utilizing a Butterworth filter algorithm. The PET acquisition was performed with the coincidence mode set 1-3. The PET data was acquired in list mode for 30 minutes, and reconstructed dynamically using the OSEM option and rebinning SSRB to 2D LOR with the ring difference set to 8. CT and PET images were evaluated and created using the InVivoScope software (InviCRO).
Mice were anaesthetised using 2-3% isofluorane in 200 ml/ min O 2 / 200 ml/min NO 2 . Animals were restrained to an MR bed via head fixation. Breathing was monitored using a pressure sensitive pillow, temperature was monitored using a rectal probe and heating was regulated during MRI data acquisition to keep body temperature at 37 C (SA instruments, Inc, USA). MRI was performed at a field strength of 9.4 T (Agilent Technologies, USA). Respiration triggered fat suppressed fast spin echo images were acquired using a spin echo preparation (10 ms) and an echo spacing of 10 ms (acceleration factor 4, effective echo time: 27 ms, 4 averages). The repetition time was set between 800 and 950 ms depending on the breathing rate of the animal. The acquisition of the data for the 12 slices was spread over 4 respiration phases to achieve a T1-weighting corresponding to a repetition time of about 3.2-3.5 sec. Coronal and sagittal sections were acquired with an in plane resolution of 1563137 lm and a slice thickness of 1 mm, while the transversal direction was acquired with an in plane resolution of 1373137 lm. ImageJ 1.46r with a plugin provided by Agilent to import their proprietary format FDF images was used to analyse the images.
Images were acquired using Olympus BX51 light microscope with CCD Olympus DP50 camera along with the CellA Analysis Image Processing Program. Ki67 index was calculated by automatic quantification using the Image Pro-Plus software as described previously. 15 Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) positive metastatic cells in liver, lungs and bone marrow were manually quantified in 1-2 entire tissue sections/mouse at 320 magnification.
Cultured SK-N-BE(2)c cells, fresh tumour explants from SK-N-BE(2)c orthotopic tumours, patient tumours and PDXs were snapfrozen and stored in 280 C freezer for single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array analysis. Briefly, DNA was extracted from the cells and tissues using DNeasy Blood and Tissue Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the instructions. We used the Affymetrix CytoScan HD platform for SNP array analysis of cultured SK-N-BE(2)c cells, SK-N-BE(2)c tumours, PDXs and patient tumour #3. High resolution microarray analysis was performed by hybridisation of genomic DNA on arrays, using equipment and protocols as recommended by the manufacturer (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). The Affymetrix CytoScan HD chip contains approximately 2.6 million markers distributed throughout all chromosomes; of these almost 750,000 are SNPs enabling detection of copy number neutral loss of heterozygosity. The practical resolution of the method is 10-50 kb for deletions and 30-150 kb for duplications; depending on the probe density of each segment. HumanCytoSNP-12 DNA Analysis BeadChip (299,140 markers 10 kb average distance) from Illumina (Illumina, San Diego, CA) was used for SNP array analysis of patient tumour #1 and patient tumour #2. DNA amplification, tagging and hybridisation to the chip were performed according to the manufacturer's protocol (http:// www.illumina.com). Data were analysed using GenomeStudio Genotyping Module (Illumina). For exclusion of constitutional copy number polymorphisms, the Database of Genomic Variants (http://projects.tcaq.ca/variation) was used. Genomic position annotations were based on the hg19 build (http:// genome.ucsc.edu/) of the human genome sequence. Copy number variation analyses were performed using the Nexus software.
