
A series of cryogenic experiments was performed at the Janus Laser Facility at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, a schematic of which is shown in Fig. 2. A drive laser was focused onto a cryogenic target, launching a shock wave into liquid deuterium at an initial density r 0 ¼ 0.17 ± 0.004 g cm À 3 . A second laser, incident on a Si 3 N 4 foil fixed to the target at an intensity of 1 Â 10 14 W cm À 2 and wavelength of 527 nm, created an intense x-ray source by pumping the 2 keV Ly-a line in SiThe copper target is held at 19 K, liquefying the deuterium that is filled into the central cavity. A drive laser is incident on a 2-mm-diameter Al pusher, launching a shock wave along the axis. A probe laser irradiates a Si 3 N 4 foil, pumping the 2,005 eV Si Ly-a transition. X-rays scattered in the forward and backward directions are spectrally dispersed with highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) crystals whose direct view of the laser-plasma is prevented by Ni shields. (b) Cross section of the target reservoir across the thickness of the target. The target is sealed with aluminium on the front surface and a transparent quartz rear window to allow the VISAR beam to probe shock evolution. (c) Schematic of laser beam timing showing the shock drive beam (red) of 2-6 ns preceding a 2-ns probe pulse. The probe is delayed by 10-20 ns, depending on drive intensity, to allow the shock front to advance into the x-ray spectrometer view. Shorter delay times yielded higher shock pressures. (d) HYDRA simulations of mass density evolving as a function of space and time, with a lineout at the x-ray probe time of 20 ns. The compressed D 2 peak (r Shock ¼ 0.54 g cm À 3 ) has traversed into the spectrometer field of view at t ¼ 20 ns when we make the x-ray measurement. The high-density peak lagging the D 2 shock front is due to the aluminium pusher, but is shielded by the x-ray window.These photons were collimated through a 400-mm-diameter aperture in the target, timed to probe the shock as it reached the x-ray collection ports. The x-rays were scattered from the shock front and collected through 400 mm ports at 45°and 135°from the incident photons. The probe pulse was delayed 10-20 ns after the rise of the drive beam, allowing the shock to traverse a distance of 350 mm to reach the volume accessed by the x-ray diagnostic port. The fields of view of the spectrometers were shielded with Ni-coated cones (40°opening angle) from ambient x-ray emission and stray light from both laser beams. The radiation was collected and spectrally dispersed with highly ordered pyrolytic graphite crystal spectrometers 35 curved at a 107-mm radius. The drive laser beam used a phase plate to produce a round 600-mm-diameter spot on target. The forward scattering measurements were made on deuterium shock-driven by a frequency-doubled 2-ns-long laser pulse producing a wavelength of 527 nm at the target. The backscattering measurements were made operating the same laser at the 1,054 nm fundamental. These shots used 4 ns drive pulses at moderate compression and 6 ns at higher compression, all at nominal intensities of 4 Â 10 13 W cm À 2 .
To determine the mass density-and hence compression r/r 0 -of the target using measured shock velocity, one of two approaches is necessary. Impedance matching techniques can be used to determine particle velocity in addition to shock velocity, closing the Rankine-Hugoniot relations 38-40 and directly constraining state variables in the target. Alternatively, existing theoretical models or measured EOS values can be used to calculate compression from the shock velocity measured with VISAR; that is the approach used in this study. While one of several modern EOS models could be effectively used, we have chosen the quotidian EOS (ref. 41) because of its computational efficiency and the fact that it represents a middle ground between popular EOS models in the pressure regime of interest. Because we rely on an EOS that is not perfectly known, this approach requires careful accounting for that uncertainty in our inferred compression. Hicks et al. 42 gave a comparison of both calculated and measured EOS values and their associated experimental uncertainties. For our experimental conditions, variations in EOS models are relatively small; near 15 GPa, where we observe the onset of ionization, models vary by about 10% in compression at a given pressure Supplementary Fig. 2 and Supplementary Methods). This uncertainty is included in the error bar of quoted values of mass density. Figure 3 shows a VISAR streak record along with the extracted shock velocities for high-power laser drive conditions. Also shown are simulation results from HYDRA, a radiationhydrodynamics code widely used for modelling inertial confinement fusion and laser-plasma experiments 43. HYDRA accurately reproduces the measured late-time shock velocities when scattering is performed. Stray light from the drive beam is visible for 2 ns early in the streak. Shock breakout from the Al pusher into D 2 occurs near the end of the drive beam where a discontinuous fringe shift is visible. As the shock decays, a drop in signal amplitude is visible in the raw data, since reflectivity falls as shock pressure and ionization decrease. The peak velocity immediately following shock breakout from the pusher is 22 km s À 1 with pressures near 50 GPa, which decays to 14 ± 1 km s À 1 and 15 þ 3.5/ À 4.5 GPa at 21 ns, the centre of the 2-ns-long x-ray probe.
At the higher drive condition, a downshifted plasmon feature is visible centred at 1,998 eV below the probe energy of E 0 ¼ 2,005 eV. The plasmon resonance in this low-temperature regime experiences very little damping and is therefore quite narrow. The presented fit curves include broadening due to collisional effects calculated in the local-field-corrected Born-Mermin approximation, which goes beyond the random phase approximation to the dynamical structure factor by including electron-electron interactions and electron-ion collisions in the Born approximation 27,44. The spectrum is convolvedwith the instrument function introduced by the highly ordered pyrolytic graphite crystal and detector. The broad low-energy tail may be explained by bound-free transitions, whose fit includes density-and temperature-dependent continuum lowering. A best fit to the data indicates a delocalized electron density of n e ¼ 2.5 ± 0.4 Â 10 22 cm À 3 due to the free-electron densitysensitive plasmon shift at 7 eV. Combined with the mass density inferred from the VISAR trace, this corresponds to an average ionization state of Z ¼ 0.15 ± 0.04. The measured electron density corresponds to a Fermi temperature of T F ¼ 3.1 eV. For typical temperatures of a fraction of an electron volt, the electrons are therefore strongly degenerate, with y¼kT=e F $ 0:1, and a scattering parameter of a ¼ 1.5. Figure 5 shows the 135°backscattered spectrum from another shot using a 4-ns laser drive, and a probe beam delay of 15 ns. HYDRA calculations using an intensity profile matched to the velocity measurements shown above predict pressures of 16 GPa and compressions of 3.2 þ 0.2/ À 0.4, producing target conditions very close to those achieved in the plasmon scattering case. The ratio of elastic to inelastic scattering is strongly dependent on the ionization of the target; with increasing average ionization, the inelastic scattering contribution from free electrons grows relative to the remaining elastic signal. Fits are shown in Fig. 5a for ionizations Z ¼ 0.1-0.5 and a best fit is achieved for n e ¼ 2.4 Â 10 22 cm À 3 . This corresponds Z ¼ 0.15±0.08, in good agreement with the plasmon data. At these conditions, the scattering parameter is a ¼ 0.63.
