
Postocclusive reactive hyperemia PORH was measured as described in Barwick et al. 19 Briefly, measurements were made with a moorVMS-LDF2 laser Doppler module and a VHP2 digit skin heater probe and needle probe (Moor Instruments, Axminster, UK). The laser probe was fixed to the plantar surface of the participant's hallux and heated to a thermoneutral 33°C. Where access to the right hallux was precluded by injury or amputation, the left hallux was used. A 2.5 cm pneumatic cuff (Moor Instruments) was placed proximal to the probe. The followingautomated settings were used with the moorVMS-PRES pressure module (Moor Instruments): 3 min of baseline flux recording, inflation of the cuff to 220 mm Hg for 3 min, cuff deflation at maximum speed, and postocclusive flux recording for a further 4 min. All data were processed with moorVMS recording and analysis software V.3.1 (Moor Instruments).
The variables of peak expressed as a percentage of baseline (P%BL) and time to peak (TtP) were chosen due to their representation of the magnitude and temporal representation of the response and their established reliability. 19 Cardiac autonomic function assessment A Polar RS800cx heart monitor (Polar Electro Oy, Kempele, Finland) was used to assess heart rate variability (HRV) as a measure of cardiac autonomic function. Participants completed a supine 5 min rest recording. The R-R interval tachogram was analyzed with Kubios HRV software (V.2.1, Kuopio, 2012). Ectopic beats were removed using linear interpolation of previous and subsequent beats. Time and frequency domain parameters were assessed. Time domain measured included the SD of the N-N interval (SDNN) and the root mean square of the R-R intervals (RMS-SD). Frequency domain measures were divided by spectral power analysis into high (0.15-0.40 Hz), low (0.04-0.15 Hz), and very lowfrequency (0.00-0.04 Hz) powers with total power calculated as the sum of all powers. 20 Variables were left continuous due to a lack of cut-off values established to indicate pathology.
Statistical analysis was performed in Statistical Packages for the Social Sciences V.22 for Windows (SPSS, Chicago, USA). Reliability of sensory neuropathy diagnosis was assessed with duplicate tests on a subset of 31 participants 7-14 days apart. κ Statistics were calculated and interpreted as per Landis and Koch 21 ≥0.75=excellent agreement, 0.4-0.75=fair to good agreement, and <0.40=poor agreement. Reliability of continuous measures (HRV) was assessed with duplicate tests on a subset of 29 participants 7-14 days apart. Intraclass correlation coefficients were calculated and interpreted in accordance with Portney and Watkins: >0.75=good, 0.50-0.75=moderate, and <0.50=poor. 22 Several hierarchical regression models were performed to determine how much the presence of sensory neuropathy and HRV predicted the variance in PORH variables (P%BL and TtP). One model for each of the four neurological variables ( presence of sensory neuropathy, RMS-SD, SDNN, and total power) was assessed. In each of the models, demographic variables identified as confounds (diabetes duration, gender, and age) were entered in level 1 and the neurological variable as the independent predictor variable in level 2. Non-normally distributed data were log transformed.
