
We used data from the National Prescribing Service (NPS) MedicineWise (formerly NPS Medicines Line), operated by clinical pharmacists of Mater Health Services, Brisbane, between September 2002 and June 2010. This call centre was available to consumers Australia-wide for medicine-related questions. Since data from our observational study were originally routinely collected as part of a health service without specific a priori research goals, research was conducted and reported in accordance with the REporting of studies Conducted using Observational Routinely-collected health Data (RECORD) guideline, 17 an extension of the STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines. 18 Details of each call were captured on a standardised form and entered into a Microsoft Access database. These included demographics, enquiry type, relationship of caller to patient and motivation for calling. For each call, up to three generic medicines relating to the question were recorded and categorised by the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification system of medicines. 19 Of the five ATC levels, we examined medicine classes at the ATC3 level, which labels medicines according to their pharmacological subgroup (eg, antihistamines-systemic), as well as at the ATC5 level, which identifies the chemical substance (eg, chlorpheniramine). Caller location was identified by postal code and grouped by state/territory and Accessibility/ Remoteness Index of Australia (ARIA), a measure of the remoteness of areas from service centres. 20 The relative population ratio was determined by dividing percentage of paracetamol calls from each ARIA category by percentage of population living in each ARIA category. Narrative for calls between January 2009 and June 2010 were also recorded electronically. Calls involving paracetamol in the question were extracted for analysis. Remaining calls were classified as 'rest of calls'. We excluded calls that only involved a voicemail request for Consumer Medicines Information (CMI) leaflets.
We conducted a retrospective quantitative analysis on all paracetamol-related calls. Comparisons between paracetamol and 'rest of calls' were performed using a χ 2 test for categorical data. Each call was originally coded for 1 of 25 enquiry types. These were collapsed into seven question categories: 'efficacy' (indications for use, medicine comparisons, effectiveness for specific conditions or symptoms); 'interaction'; 'other safety' (side effects or cautions for use), 'administration' (dose, administration, formulation or storage issues); safety in 'pregnancy and/or lactation'; 'logistics' (availability or cost) and 'miscellaneous'. Enquiry types were compared by patient age groups and other life stages, for example, during pregnancy or breast feeding. Concurrent medicines included in paracetamol calls were also compared by age groups and a special population, pregnant women. A two-sided p-value <0.05 was considered significant. The data were exported to SPSS Statistics V.21 for analysis (IBM Corp. SPSS Statistics for Windows, 23 edn. New York: IBM Corp, 2015).
