
After ultrasound sonication for ~1 minute in the presence of MBs, 6,7 the rat was immediately placed under the objective of the two-photon microscope. The syringe was replaced by the one filled with TRITC-dextran-155 kDa solution (tracer) (Figure 3B). The tracer solution was then introduced into the cerebral circulation via the carotid artery at a constant flow rate of ~3 mL/min 23,36 for 1 minute in an interval of 5 minutes. Simultaneously, the images of the ROI containing the microvessels and the surrounding brain tissue were captured for 1 minute at 5-minute intervals up to 25 minutes. The images of 239 μm ×239 μmThe MBs at a concentration of ~1.7×10 6 bubbles/mL were injected via rat carotid artery at a constant speed of ~3 mL/min, the normal blood flow velocity at the carotid artery; after 10-15 seconds, the MBs reach the microvascular bed ~100-200 μm below the pia mater, 23 and the FUS sonication was administrated for 1 minute. After sonication, the rat head was mounted into the multiphoton microscope, and the ROI with cerebral microvessels was found. This took about 5 minutes. Then, the images for determining the BBB solute permeability were collected for 1 minute at a rate of one image per second in a 5-minute interval, up to 25 minutes.We used the similar method as in our previous study for permeability of pial microvessels 24 to determine permeability of cerebral microvessels ~100-200 μm below the pia mater. Most of the microvessels chosen were post-capillary venules of 15-40 μm diameter for the permeability measurement, and around 1/4 of the microvessels were capillaries. 24,35 The reasons that we currently only measured the permeability of post-capillary venules and capillaries were: 1) to avoid the influence of smooth muscle cells at arteries, arterioles, and large venules, which would contract under stimuli and affect the permeability measurement; 35 2) our previous studies on the BBB permeability were also conducted on this type of post-capillary venules. 23,24 The permeability was determined off-line from the pre-collected images by using ImageJ (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA). Figure 4A shows a typical image of an ROI (~239 μm ×239 μm) with a couple of microvessels and surrounding brain tissue. The total fluorescence intensity in a rectangular window including a vessel lumen and the surrounding tissue (Figure 4A) was measured by ImageJ. The measuring window was ~50-100 μm long and ~30-60 μm wide and was set at least 10 μm from the base of the bifurcation to avoid solute contamination from the side arms. The criteria for the size and placement of the measuring window were 1) the vessel segment is straight, 2) the dye does not spread out of the window during the time for permeability measurement (10-60 seconds), and 3) no dye contamination from the neighboring vessels into the window. When the criteria were satisfied, permeability was determined using the equation, 24,37
The BBB permeability to dextran-155 kDa, measured at a specific time in the control group was used to normalize those in the test and sham control groups at the same time. Data were presented as mean ± standard error unless otherwise specified. Significance was assumed for probability level P0.05 using a two-way analysis of variance followed by a Tukey's post hoc analysis (JMP; SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA).
