
supplemental methods in the online appendix available at http://dx.doi.org/ 10.2337/db07-1751). Whole-blood and plasma measurements. Total white blood cell number and differential counts were assessed by standard techniques (ACP Diagnostic Lab, University of California, San Diego). We measured plasma insulin by radioimmunoassay (Linco Research) and determined free fatty acids by colorimetric assay (Wako). Plasma cytokines were measured by the core laboratories of the Diabetes and Endocrinology Research Consortium (University of California, Los Angeles; LINCOplex assay for Mouse Cytokines, http://www.derc.med.ucla.edu/core.htm). Plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels were measured by enzymatic methods using an automated bichromatic analyzer (Abbot Diagnostics). All of these measurements were performed on 11 wild-type and 9 ␣4(Y991A) mice for high-fat diet and 6 wild-type and 5 ␣4(Y991A) mice for chow diet (Table 1). Histochemistry. Adipose tissue was fixed overnight in 10% formaldehyde, dehydrated in ethanol bath, and paraffin-embedded. Sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin (H-E) for observation of adipose tissue structure. Pancreas isolation and determination of islet area. Pancreata were isolated and fixed in 4% formalin overnight. Paraffin sections were generated and stained with H-E. Pictures were taken of H-E-stained pancreas sections, and the area of Langerhans islets and the total area of the pancreas were measured using ImageJ software (NIH freeware). Islet area was depicted as percentage of total pancreas area. Sections of four to seven mice per group and at least six different pancreas areas per mouse were analyzed for statistical significance using unpaired two-tailed Student's t test. P values Ͻ0.05 were considered significant. Bone marrow transplantation. We injected bone marrow obtained from wild-type and ␣4(Y991A) mice (4 ϫ 10 6 cells) through the tail vein into male C57BL/6 (4 months) and ␣4(Y991A) (4 -6 months) mice that had been irradiated (10 Gy) 4 h before. Mice were allowed 4 weeks for reconstitution of donor marrow, which we verified by PCR (18). Isolation of stromal vascular cells. Epidydimal fat pads were minced in PBS and digested with collagenase (Roche) and DNase I (Sigma) for 1 h at 37°C. Suspensions were then filtered through a 100-m nylon cell strainer and then spun at 1,000g for 10 min. The preadipocyte/adipocyte-enriched fraction was removed. Isolated stromal vascular cells were resuspended in red blood cell lysis buffer (10 mmol/l KHCO 3 , 150 mmol/l NH 4 Cl, and 0.1 mmol/l EDTA, pH 8) for 5 min at room temperature. Cell suspension was centrifuged for 5 min at 500g, and stromal vascular cells were resuspended in PBS at 10 6 cells/100 l. Flow cytometry. Cells were harvested from WAT, peripheral blood, and bone marrow and incubated in Fc blocker (rat anti-mouse CD16/32) for 20 min at room temperature. The cells were then incubated with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-Ly-6G (1/200) and phycoerythrin (PE)-7/4 (1/50) (BD Biosciences/ PharMingen, San Diego, CA). Negative control staining was performed with FITC-rat IgG2a/k and PE-rat IgG2a. Cell staining was analyzed with FACScan flow cytometer using CellQuest software (BD Biosciences Systems). Cell migration assay. Cell migration was assayed in a modified Boyden chamber system using a 24-well transwell plate (8-m pore size; Corning) coated with 5 g/ml VCAM-1 (R&D Systems). Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) (R&D Systems) was added in the lower chamber at 1 nmol/l. Cells harvested from wild-type or ␣4(Y991A) bone marrow were grown for 5-7 days in the presence of granulocyte macrophage-colonystimulating factor (5 l of 0.1 mg/ml stock solution). Bone marrow-derived macrophages (2 ϫ 10 4 ) were kept in suspension in 1% serum containing medium for 1 h at room temperature. Cells were then added to the top chamber and incubated overnight at 37°C. Filters were fixed and stained with crystal violet, and migrated cells in the lower chamber were enumerated. RNA isolation and RT-PCR. Total RNA was isolated from WAT using RNeasy Lipid Tissue kit (Qiagen). RT-PCRs were carried out as described in the online appendix (20). Statistical analysis. Means and SEs were calculated for all dependent measures. Data were analyzed for statistical significance using the one-or two-tailed Student's t test. Significance was set at P Յ 0.05. For Fig. 1B, change scores for the chow diet and high-fat diet data were determined using the total area under the curve (AUC) (21).
