
Segmentation of regions. The automated procedures for obtaining volumetric measurements of the different brain structures were described by Fischl et al. (17). This procedure was accomplished using the Freesurfer package version 4.5 (Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA). This software classifies each voxel with a neuroanatomical label based on probabilistic information automatically estimated from a manually labeled training set. Initially, an optimal linear transform was computed to maximize the likelihood of the input image based on an atlas constructed from manually labeled images. Next, a nonlinear transform was initialized with the transformation of the previous step, and the image was deformed until a better match of the atlas was obtained. Finally, a Bayesian segmentation procedure was applied, and the maximum a posteriori estimate of the labeling was computed. The technique has been previously shown to be comparable in accuracy to manual labeling (17). The Freesurfer system provides the volumes of the classified structures and cortical thickness values.
where (MO) is the signal intensity of the pixel with no MT pulse, Ms is the signal intensity of the pixel with the MT pulse, and MTR is the magnetization transfer ratio. We used the Mincmath tool (19) to construct the MTR map for each exam.
where Sr r,TE ð Þand S 0r r ð Þ represent the pixel intensity at the positionr r in the image obtained at the TE echo time and ''ideal'' 0 echo time, respectively. Therefore, a linear least squares method can be used to estimate the T2 pixel value (T2r r ð Þ) from the obtained TE images. The in-house script "Relaxon" was implemented for this purpose using MINC tools.
where LRXWM is the white matter relaxometry of the left hemisphere and RRXWM is the white matter relaxometry of the right hemisphere. The patients, based on their MRI characteristics, were divided using k-means cluster analyses implemented in Minitab software, and two groups were formed: cluster 1, which had the best results with respect to quantitative MRI measures (high volumes and MTRs), and cluster 2, which had the worst results (low volumes and MTR values and high T2 values). The k-means cluster analysis is used to cluster observations into groups when the groups are initially unknown. This procedure uses non-hierarchical clustering of observations.
These neuropsychological results were divided according to the quantitative MRI measures, and a comparison between the groups was performed by the Mann-Whitney nonparametric test of the SPSS 13.0 for Windows including the variables age and schooling.
