
The quantification of the interaction between the Tao eta allele and knockdown of candidate genes was conducted in stage 9 egg chambers carrying asymmetric clones with respect to the anterior-posterior axis (see Fig. S4). To assess the interaction, the apical-basal cell length of both Tao eta + RNAi and RNAi only (or wild-type control) cells was measured at the level of the nuclei using the confocal microscope (LSM 700) software orImageJ (National Institutes of Health). The apical-basal length proportion show no gross morphological defects in the PNS (Silies and Klämbt, 2010). Thus, although Fas2 down-regulation is critical for epithelial and PNS morphogenesis, both tissues can compensate for the complete loss of the protein. We propose that Fas2 helps to stabilize a morphological state and allows development to proceed only after its timely controlled endocytosis. This mechanism guarantees the correct timing of morphogenesis and thereby helps to coordinate the development of different cell types and tissues. In the follicular epithelium, Fas2 might collaborate with the zonula adherens in counteracting the pressure from the growing germline cyst. As a result, the cuboidal cell shape is stabilized and premature, and uncontrolled stretching is prevented. Subsequently, Fas2 internalization overcomes this control mechanism, and epithelial morphogenesis proceeds.
The signal intensity of immunofluorescent -Galactosidase stainings was measured using ImageJ 1.42j (Mac OS X; Apple). To quantify the signal intensity, the area corresponding to the -Galactosidase signal within each analyzed cell was selected manually, and its intensity was measured. Measurements of signal intensities were performed with raw confocal pictures. The statistical analysis of Tao eta /Tao eta versus Tao + /Tao + data were performed with a t nonpaired two-tailed nonequal variance test.
The dataset analysis was performed in Excel 2008 (Microsoft) for Mac OS X (v12.2.0) and Prism 5 (GraphPad Software) for Mac OS X (v5.0d). For all statistical tests, the significance level was set at  = 0.05.
