
Confocal microscopy analysis. Drosophila S2 cells were plated in 12-well plastic tissue culture plate in 1 ml of Schneider's medium with 10% FBS. FITC-labeled (Invitrogen, USA) microbes were added to each well containing S2 cells at a density of 5 3 10 6 , followed by incubation for 1 hr at 28uC. After washes with PBS, the S2 cells were transferred to Poly-Prep glass slides (Sigma, USA) and fixed. Then the S2 cells were incubated with rhodamine phalloidin (Invitrogen, USA) or DAPI (Sigma, USA) to label actin or nucleus DNA, respectively. Fluorescent images were taken with a Zeiss Laser scanning systems LSM 510 Meta (Carl Zeiss, Germany) and processed using Zeiss LSM Image Examiner Version software.
Analyses of gene expressions with oligonucleotide microarray. S2 cells (1 3 10 6 ) were inoculated with DCV at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1 for 1 hr. Inactivated DCV was treated in the same way. The WSSV virions (1 3 10 7 copies/ mL) or inactivated WSSV virions (1 3 10 7 copies/mL) were inoculated into S2 cells (1 3 10 6 cells/mL) for 1 hr. Then total RNA was extracted from treated S2 cells by using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The total RNA samples were then analyzed by CapitalBio Corp for Chip (Affymetrix) assay. Gene expression analysis was performed by using the Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA, USA) Drosophila GeneChip, using the laboratory methods in the Affymetrix GeneChip expression manual. Gene expression analysis was performed using multiple arrays and multiple independent mRNA samples for each treatment. Microarray data were analyzed by using Bio MAS (molecule annotation system) 3.0 software (CapitalBio Corporation, Beijing, China). Using the criterion of cutoff limitation as a fold change $2 or #0.5 and q-value #5%, differential expression genes were screened and clustered.
Biological pathway analysis. Through array analysis, the commonly altered genes were screened from DCV, and WSSV treatments. The selected genes were further analyzed in the context of Gene Ontology (GO) biological process and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) biological pathway. Then the results of signaling pathway and protein interaction about these genes were analyzed by MAS 3.0 software. To reveal the functions of predicted target genes, we used the ontology classification of genes based on gene annotation and summary information available through DAVID (Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery).
Quantitative real-time PCR. Total RNAs were extracted from S2 cells (1 3 10 6 ) using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Then the total RNA (5 mg) was reversely transcribed to synthesize cDNA in a volume of 20 mL with reverse transcriptase M-MLV (Takara, Japan). Quantitative real-time PCR was performed using gene-specific primers and TaqMan probe (Table S2). Relative expression levels of interest genes were calculated as previously described 43, using rp49 as an internal control in S2 cells. Real-time PCR was carried out in a final volume of 20 ml, which contained 10 ml Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa, Japan), 1 ml diluted cDNA template, 7.2 ml distilled water, 0.3 ml of each TaqMan probe and 0.4 ml of each primer. PCR conditions were as follows, 95uC for 30 seconds, followed by 50 cycles of 95uC for 5 seconds and 60uC for 30 seconds. Resultant data were analyzed using theiQTM5 software.
WSSV quantitative analysis by TaqMan real-time PCR. TaqMan real-time PCR was performed by using a Perfect Real Time premix (Takara, Japan) containing a high-performance Taq antibody, Takara Ex Taq HS, for hotstart real-time PCR.Primer 3 software was used to design primers and the TaqMan probe with the WSSV whole sequence (GenBank accession no. AF332093). Primers WSSV-RT1 (59-TTGG TTTCATGCCCGAGATT-39) and WSSV-RT2 (59-CCTTGGTCAGCCCCTTGA-39) produced a fragment of 154 bp after amplification. The TaqMan probe was synthesized and labeled with the fluorescent dyes 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) (59-FAM-TGCTGCCGTCTCCAA-TAMRA-39). The reaction mixture consisted of DNA aliquot, 200 nM of each primer, 100 nM of each TaqMan probe, and 1 3 PCR reaction buffer containing DNA polymerase in a final reaction volume of 20 ml. PCR amplification was performed for 4 min at 50uC, followed by 45 cycles of 45 s at 95uC, 45 s at 52uC and 45 s at 72uC. Thermal cycling was performed on an iCycle IQ5 realtime PCR detection system (Bio-RAD, USA).
