
Fluorescence intensity in PR was rigorously and reproducibly quantified in an unbiased manner as previously described (63). Individual colour channel images were taken using a Leica microscope (Leica Microsystems GmbH). TIFF images were gray-scaled with image analysis software (LAS AF lite; Leica Microsystems GmbH). Six images of each eye were analyzed at 20× magnification by a masked observer. The PR (outer nuclear layer + OS) were selectively outlined in every image, and the total fluorescence for the enclosed area was calculated in an unbiased manner using the image analysis software. The fluorescence in PR was then averaged from six images collected from separate retinal sections from each eye. We then calculated the average fluorescence of the three eyes of each experimental group.
For lipofuscin fluorescence analysis, eyes were harvested from pigmented Abca4+/− and Abca4−/− mice at 3 months after AAV injection. Mice were dark-adapted over-night and sacrificed under dim red-light. For each eye, four overlapping pictures from the temporal side of three sections at different levels of the eye were taken using a Leica DM5000B microscope equipped with a TX2 filter (excitation: 560 ± 40 nm; emission: 645 ± 75) (64- 68) and under a 20× objective. The four images for each section were then combined in a single montage used for further fluorescence analysis. Intensity of lipofuscin fluorescence (red signal) in each section was automatically calculated using the ImageJ software and was then normalized for the length of the RPE underlying the area of fluorescence.
For electron microscopy analyses eyes were harvested from albino Abca4−/− and Abca4+/+ mice at 3 months after AAV injection. Eyes were fixed in 0.2% glutaraldehyde-2% PFA in 0.1 M PHEM buffer pH 6.9 (240 m PIPES, 100 m HEPES, 8 m MgCl2, 40 m EGTA) overnight and then rinsed in 0.1 M PHEM buffer. Eyes were then dissected under light microscope to select the tyrosinase-positive portions of the eyecups. The transduced portion of the eyecups were subsequently embedded in 12% gelatin, infused with 2.3 M sucrose and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Cryosections (50 nm) were cut using a Leica Ultramicrotome EM FC7 (Leica Microsystems) and extreme care was taken to align PR connecting cilia longitudinally. To avoid bias in the attribution of morphological data to the various experimental groups, counts of lipofuscin granules were performed by a masked operator (Dr Roman Polishchuk) using the iTEM software (Olympus SYS, Hamburg, Germany). The 'Touch count' module of the iTEM software was used to count the number of lipofuscin granules in 25 µm 2 areas (at least 40) distributed randomly across the RPE layer. The granule density was expressed as number of granules per 25 µm 2 .
