
Data were acquired and analyzed with the pClamp 10 software (Axon Instruments). Numerical values are shown as means with SEM, with n indicating the number of slices or neurons tested. Data are expressed as percentage of the baseline response measured for each slice or neuron during the 5 to 10 minutes preceding the start of perfusion with a compound or 5-Hz stimulation. Statistical significance of the results was assessed by using the Student's t test for paired observations (comparisons with baseline within single groups) and unpaired (comparisons between adolescents and adults).
Western blots were performed to analyze the levels of the receptors known to be involved in LTD induction. The DLS and NAc were visually identified in brain slices and were dissected with the help of a scalpel blade and tweezers. The tissue was frozen and stored at −20°C until processed. The samples were sonicated in 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate and boiled for 10 minutes. Protein concentration was determined in each sample with a bicinchoninic acid protein assay (BCA-kit, Pierce, Rockford, IL). Equal amounts of protein (30 μg) were resuspended in sample buffer and separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis using a 10% running gel and transferred to an Immobilon-P (polyvinylidene difluoride) transfer membrane (Sigma-Aldrich). The membranes were incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with 5% (wt/vol) dry milk in Tris Buffered Saline (TBS)-Tween20. Immunoblotting was carried out with antibodies against CB1 (Sigma-Aldrich, 1:500 dilution), mGluR1 (Cell Signaling Technology, Danvers, MA, 1:500), mGluR5 (Upstate Biotechnology Inc., Waltham, MA, 1:500), GluN1 (Upstate Biotechnology Inc., 1:500), and β-actin (Sigma-Aldrich, 1:4000) in 5% dry milk dissolved in TBS-Tween 20. The membranes were washed 3 times with TBS-Tween20 and incubated with secondary horseradish peroxidase-linked anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G (H+L) (Thermo Scientific; Göteborg, Sweden, 1:6000 dilution) for 1 hour at room temperature. At the end of the incubation, the membranes were washed 6 times with TBS-Tween 20 and immunoreactive bands were detected by enhanced chemiluminescence (Perkin Elmer, Waltham, MA). The autoradiograms were scanned and quantified with the NIH Image 1.63 software. The levels of protein were normalized for the value of β-actin. Data were analyzed with the unpaired Student's t test to evaluate statistical differences between protein levels in adolescent and adult NAc and striatum.
