
Using TALE-NT 2.0 (TALE Effector Nucleotide Targeter 2.0) 28, we were able to confirm that these positive clones are predicted to bind to either the plus or minus strand of three specific locationswithin the SCN9A bait sequence. Five of the TALE-VP16 clones are illustrated together with their corresponding position (Fig. 2b). To confirm these results, we first generated baits that exclude those predicted DNA target sites. For example, the positive clone T110 induced the expression of Aba resistance gene when the bait sequence is intact Supplementary Fig. 5a) but it failed to produce surviving clones when the specific DNA target site (59-GTTGC-CTCCCC-39) was removed Supplementary Fig. 5b). Subsequently, we cloned these TALE-VP16 fusions into a mammalian expression vector, transiently transfected the plasmids into human embryonic kidney cells (HEK293) and human squamous carcinoma cells (A431), and measured the expression level of SCN9A by quantitative RT-PCR (Methods, Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR). All fusions were able to effectively drive the overexpression of the SCN9A gene in both cell lines (up to 11-fold increase for HEK293 cells and 8.5-fold increase for A431 cells) (Fig. 2c).
Our results clearly demonstrate that the complete library can be used to isolate TALEs that bind to a desired DNA sequence. Importantly, we observed that TALE-VP16 can be designed to bind to the minus strand of a target sequence and in addition, can also be designed to target sequences within the ORF. We emphasize that one fundamental difference between our approach and all previous applications of TALEs is that our screening procedure does not rely on TALE-DNA binding prediction algorithms 28,30. This is a considerable advantage as available algorithms may not yet fully capture the dynamics of TALE-DNA interactions. Indeed, we designed four 11-mer TALE-VP16 constructs for the same SCN9A bait sequence using the TALE-NT 2.0 program (Supplementary Table 3) and observed that all fusions, as well as combinations, failed to induce the overexpression of SCN9A mRNA levels in HEK293 (Fig. 2c, Supplementary Figs. 7 and 9). Additional insight can be gathered from recovered RVDs (Supplementary Table 3), as none of the isolated positive TALE-VP16 clones contain RVD sequences exactly matching the canonical TALE-DNA binding code. As an example, for the target sequence 59-GTTGCCTCCCC-39, instead of the predicted canonical RVD sequence the four isolated clones contained at least one RVD difference. Therefore, the TALE-DNA binding information extracted from our library can be used in the future to refine the TALE-DNA binding algorithms.
Prediction of target sequences. All rescued pGADT7-TALE-VP16 plasmids were subjected to standard Sanger sequencing using the forward primer P23 and the reverse primer P24 (Supplementary Table 1), which are flanking sequences of the DNA binding domain of TALE proteins. After extracting the RVD sequences, the TALE potential target sequences were determined by the Target Finder function ofTALE-NT 2.0 28 using the setting ''upstream base T''. Since TALE-NT 2.0 only supports sequences which are between 12 and 31 RVDs, for each TALE we conducted four searches by adding one additional RVD (HD or NN or NI or NG) to the end of our RVD sequences. The lowest score from one of these four searches was defined as ''the lowest possible score''. The targets were considered as potentially genuine only when the lowest possible score is less than 9, as lower scores indicate higher confidence of the bindings between TALE fusions and their predicted DNA target sequences.Invitrogen, #15140). For transient transfection, ,300 thousand cells in 1 mL of complete medium were plated into each well of 12-well culture treated plastic plates (Griener Bio-One, #665180) and grown for 16-20 hours. For jetPRIME (Polyplus Transfection, #114-15) transfection, up to 1 mg of the plasmid was added to 75 mL of jetPRIME buffer and 1.75 mL of jetPRIME. Transfection solutions were mixed and incubated at room temperature for 10 min. The transfection mixture was then applied to the cells and mixed with the medium by gently shaking.
