
Normally distributed data were expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD), and comparisons between groups were performed using a Student's t-test. Abnormally distributed data were expressed as median and interquartile range (M, IQR), and comparisons between groups were performed using a Wilcoxon rank sum test. Categorical variables were presented as numerical data and percentages, statistical comparisons were conducted by a Chi-square (χ 2 ) test. In univariate analysis, variables with P < 0.1 between survivals and deaths were considered as potential risk factors for mortality and included into a multivariable logistic regression model for adjustment. After every PLT index had been adjusted by clinical covariates, the ORs for mortality in patients with normal or abnormal PLT indices were presented. Hosmer-Lemeshow test was applied to test Goodness-of-fit properties. Collinearity was determined by variance inflation factor (VIF). The value of VIF more than 5 indicated the existence of multicollinearity. [11] Second, to explore the relationship between PLT indices and illness severity, we first divided each PLT index into tertiles of the normal range, higher than upper limit, lower than lower limit. Then, we plotted the distribution of APACHE II scores and SOFA scores in each tertile to investigate whether the patients with abnormal PLT indices were associated with higher illness scores. Third, to evaluate the performance of the PLT indices in predicting death events, we built the ROCs for every index and compared the area under the curves (AUC). We also calculated optimal cut-off point (where the Youden index reached the maximum value) [12] and the diagnostic parameters including sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio and diagnostic accuracy for each PLT index. Finally, to compare the prognosis in patient with normal and abnormal PLT indices, we used the KaplanMeier method to construct survival curves for the each group. Log-rank test was used for comparison of different survival curves between patients with normal and abnormal PLT indices. All the statistical analysis was performed using Stata 10 software (StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA), P < 0.05 was considered as statistically significant. All the diagrams were constructed using GraphPad Prism 5.0 (GraphPad Software Inc., CA, USA).
