
Genomic DNA samples were quantified using the QuantiFluor dsDNA system (Promega, Madison, WI, USA), according to manufacturer's instructions. Whole-exome capture was performed on 50 ng DNA using the Nextera Rapid Capture Expanded Exome kit (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA), and 125-bp paired-end sequences were obtained on a HiSeq2500 platform (Illumina), according to manufacturer's instructions. Details of WES analysis are described elsewhere. 24 FastQC (available at http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/ projects/fastqc/; in the public domain) was used to confirm quality of sequencing, after which adapter indexes were removed using Trimmomatic. 25 Reads were mapped to the human reference sequence (hg19, GRCH37) using BWA, 26 andGATK 27,28 was used for variant calling, local realignment, base quality recalibration, and variant recalibration. Annotation of variants was performed with ANNOVAR. 29
Sequence variants present in genes (Supplementary Table S1) listed on the RetNet database (https://sph.uth.edu/Retnet/sumdis.htm; in the public domain; accessed 12 November 2014) were extracted for further analysis. Variants with a minor allele frequency (MAF) of <0.1 in the 1000 Genomes Project 30 (October 2014 annotation) were prioritized, as were exonic or splicing variants. The variants were subsequently selected based on cosegregation with the disease phenotype within each family. For nonsynonymous variants, a minimum threshold of three pathogenic predictions was applied to the dbNSFP 31 annotation of ANNOVAR, for either of the following predictor subsets: (SIFT, PolyPhen2-HDIV, PolyPhen2-HVAR, LRT, MutationTaster, MutationAssessor, FATHMM, MetaSVM, and MetaLR), or (VEST3 CADD-raw, CADD-phred, GERPþþ, phyloP46way-placental, phyloP100way-vertebrate and SiPhy- 29way-logOdds). Variants were then assessed for their presence in the remainder of the cohort. High-priority candidate variants were finally evaluated by examining RetNet and Ensembl release 8 32 with particular emphasis on population data for 1000 Genomes African subpopulations and NHLBI Exome Sequencing data (http://evs.gs.washington.edu/EVS/; in the public domain) in African Americans, as well as reported phenotypes associated with the genes.
