
13 C]-palmitate in pig brain. To validate the biodistribution of both [ 18 F]-FTHA and [ 13 C]-palmitate in brain, we used data from in vivo pig [ 18 F]-FTHA biodistribution study (18), and completed the study by analyzing the biodistribution of stable [ 13 C]-palmitate from frozen brain samples obtained from the same animals. The study protocol and analysis of [ 18 F]-FTHA has been described in detail elsewhere (18), and the palmitate information is provided in an online appendix in an online appendix available at http://diabetes.diabetesjournals. org/cgi/content/full/db09-0138/DC1. The results are provided in Table 3. Roughly 62% from [ 13 C]-palmitate and 69% from [ 18 F]-FTHA was found in brain lipids. Most of the [ 13 C]-palmitate in brain lipids was found in phospholipids, and only trace amounts were found in triglycerides and fatty acids. [ 18 F]-FTHA was found mostly in triglycerides. PET studies. Patients were scanned in the fasting state, and they refrained from drinks containing caffeine, smoking, and all medications for 12 h before the PET scan. Studies were performed in a supine position. Two catheters were inserted in the antecubital veins of different arms: one for saline infusion and tracer injection, and another for blood sampling. TN) and GE Advance (GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI) were in use when this tracer was divided. The second study was scanned with same camera-protocol as the first study. Data were corrected for dead-time, decay, and photon attenuation. PET images were reconstructed in GE Advance using a 128 ϫ 128 matrix with a 30-cm field of view (FOV) in three-dimensional (3D) mode and Filtered Back Projection (FBP) reconstruction, in Siemens HRϩ using 128 ϫ 128 matrix with zoom two (28.8 cm FOV) in 3D mode and FBP reconstruction and in PET-CT using 128 ϫ 128 matrix with 35 cm FOV in 3D mode and Iterative Ordered Subset Expectation Maximization (OSEM) reconstruction (VUEPoint). Calculation of the parametric fractional uptake rate image. Brain fractional uptake indexes for [ 11 C]-palmitate and [ 18 F]-FTHA were calculated by dividing the brain radioactivity by the integral of the plasma unmetabolized radioactivity curve at 15 min. The modeling gives results that are independent of the injected tracer dose. The fractional uptake rate (FUR) image from dynamic brain scanning was calculated from 10 -20 min. Analysis of PET images. The detailed description of regional and voxel level PET image analyses and statistical analyses of regional FUR estimates are provided in the online appendix. All values are expressed as mean Ϯ SD. P values Ͻ 0.05 are considered statistically significant. Biochemical analyses. Details of biochemical analyses are provided in the online appendix. Statistical analysis of biochemical and anthropometric data. Student t test was used in baseline to compare results between MS patients and the control group. A paired Student t test was used to compare changes in the MS group before and after VLCD. Correlations were analyzed using SAS Enter- prise Guide 4.1 (4.1.0.471; SAS Institute, Cary, NC). The normality of variables was assessed by the Shapiro-Wilkins test. Variables with normal distribution were calculated using Pearson correlation, and non-normal Spearman correlation was used. All values are expressed as mean Ϯ SD. P values Ͻ 0.05 are considered statistically significant.
