
TM with a Multimode TM AFM (Veeco, Santa Barbara, CA, USA) operation with a Nanoscope IIIa TM controller. For scanning, Olympus silicon cantilevers (OMCL-AC160TS-W2) with spring constants between 36 and 75 N/m were used. The scan frequency was typically 1.5 Hz per line and the modulation amplitude was a few nanometers. Analysis of the DNA-Dan complexes was performed using the Nanoscope software. Twodimensional images in brightness and contrast were optimized for the purpose of clarity. Three-dimensional images were created with the Nanoscope software and exported in TIFF format.
The procedure for indirect immuno-fluorescence microscopy was essentially the same as previously described (27,28). In brief, cells were fixed by treatment with 80% methanol for 1 h at 25 C, and deposited on to a poly L-lysine-coated slide. After air drying, cells were treated with 2 mg/ml lysozyme solution at room temperature for 5 min. The slide was treated 99% methanol for 1 min, and then with acetone for 1 min until complete dryness. After washing with PBS containing 0.05% Tween 20) and 2% bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 15 min for blocking, the sample was treated with 200-500-fold diluted anti-Dan antibodies for 1 h at room temperature. After washing with Tween-containing PBS, the sample was treated at room temperature for 1 h with 500-fold diluted goat anti-rabbit IgG antibodies conjugated with a fluorescence compound Cy3. After washing with Tween-containing PBS, the sample was treated with 10 ml of DAPI (4 0 ,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride, 10 mg/ml) for 1 min for staining DNA, and covered with one drop of mountain medium (1 mg/ml p-phenylenediamine and 90% glycerol in PBS, pH 9.0). The immuno-stained samples were observed with a fluorescence and phasecontrast microscope (100Âobjective lens; Olympus, Japan) equipped with a chilled, high sensitive digital CCD camera, Regita EXi (NIPPON ROPER, Japan), connected to a computer. Different filter cassettes were used for observation of Cy3 and DAPI fluorescence. The images were transferred directly to a Windows XP and processed using Image-Pro Plus version 6.0 software. The specificity of the observed immuno-stained fluorescent signal was verified by the absence of the signal in corresponding immuno-stained samples prepared using the respective dan null mutant cells.
