
In order to manage phytosanitary risks in an ever growing and increasingly dynamic import and export market, the EU 7th Framework Program funded the Quarantine Barcoding of Life project to develop a quick, reliable and accurate DNA barcodebased diagnostic tool for selected species on the EPPO A1/A2 lists and EU Council Directive 2000/29/EC (www.QBOL.org). There are currently almost 350 pest and quarantine organisms, covering bacteria, phytoplasmas, fungi, parasitic plants, insects and mites, nematodes, virus and virus-like organisms on the EPPO A1 (currently absent from the EPPO region) and A2 (locally present but controlled in the EPPO region) lists of organisms that require standardised protocols against introduction into, and spread within, the EPPO region. Under QBOL, informative loci from the selected quarantine species and their taxonomically related species were subjected to DNA barcoding from voucher specimens in order to produce reliable DNA barcode sequences that are made publicly available through an online and searchable database called Q-bank (www.q-bank. eu) (Bonants et al. 2010). Within the QBOL project, the CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre (Utrecht, The Netherlands), was tasked with barcoding the Mycosphaerella complex (order Capnodiales, class Dothideomycetes) on the EPPO A1/A2 lists and their taxonomically related closest sister species (Table 1).
Most of the DNA used during this study were isolated from pure cultures that were either available at, or were made available to, the CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Utrecht, the Netherlands (CBS). Reference strains were either maintained in the culture collection of CBS, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan culture collection (MAFF) and/or at the LNPV -Mycologie, Malzéville, France (LNPV) Table 1). Fresh collections were made from leaves of diverse hosts by placing material in damp chambers for 1-2 d. Single conidial colonies were established from sporulating conidiomata on Petri dishes containing 2 % malt extract agar (MEA) as described earlier by Crous et al. (1991). Colonies were sub-cultured onto potato-dextrose agar (PDA), oatmeal agar (OA), MEA (Crous et al. 2009b), and pine needle agar (PNA) (Lewis 1998), and incubated at 25 °C under continuous near-ultraviolet light to promote sporulation. Morphological descriptions are based on slide preparations mounted in clear lactic acid from colonies sporulating on PNA. Observations were made with a Zeiss V20 Discovery stereo-microscope, and with a Zeiss Axio Imager 2 light microscope using differential interference contrast (DIC) illumination and an AxioCam MRc5 camera and software. Colony characters and pigment production were noted after 1 mo of growth on MEA, PDA and OA (Crous et al. 2009b) incubated at 25 °C. Colony colours (surface and reverse) were rated according to the colour charts of Rayner (1970). Sequences derived in this study were lodged with GenBank, the alignments in TreeBASE (www.treebase.org), and taxonomic novelties in MycoBank (www.MycoBank.org) (Crous et al. 2004a).
A basic alignment of the obtained sequence data was first done using MAFFT v. 6 (http://mafft.cbrc.jp/alignment/server/index. html (Katoh et al. 2002) and if necessary, manually improved in BioEdit v. 7.0.5.2 (Hall 1999). Bayesian analyses (critical value for the topological convergence diagnostic set to 0.01) were performed on the individual loci using MrBayes v. 3.2.1 (Huelsenbeck & Ronquist 2001) as described by Crous et al. (2006b). Suitable models were first selected using Models of nucleotide substitution for each gene as determined using MrModeltest (Nylander 2004), and included for each gene partition. The substitution models for each locus are shown in Table 3. Teratosphaeria nubilosa (CPC 12243) was used as outgroup for all phylogenetic analyses.
The ITS locus is the prime candidate for the primary locus. ITS has recently been proposed as one of the primary fungal barcoding loci (Schoch et al. 2012). ITS sequencing data is easily obtained and a good starting point to rapidly identify genera and sometimes species. If an unknown genus or species is not represented in a curated database such as Q-bank, a GenBank blast could be used to supplement these curated databases. Mycology has a long history of using ITS data to identify fungal species and GenBank would thus be a good supplementary (although not completely curated) database. The use of ITS as the primary locus, and if necessary using a secondary locus following a molecular decision protocol, would be the most stable approach for a reliable identification. This is also the identification protocol as it is currently implemented in Q-bank.
