
(i) RT DNA synthesis was evaluated using a 214-nt RNA or DNA template that corresponds to the HIV-1 sequence used for (À) strong stop DNA synthesis Figure 2). The RNA and DNA templates were prepared as described previously (3). Both the RNAand DNA-dependent DNA synthesis reactions were primed with the same 5 0 -end-32 P-labeled 18-nt DNAC for 30 min (DNA-dependent DNA synthesis) or 60 min (RNA-dependent DNA synthesis) and then quenched by addition of 20 ml of gel loading buffer (98% deionized formamide containing 1 mg/ml each of bromophenol blue and xylene cyanol). Samples were then denatured at 95 C for 10 min and polymerization products were separated from substrates by denaturing gel electrophoresis using 14% acrylamide gels containing 7 M urea. DNA synthesis was analyzed by phosphorimaging using a GS-525 Molecular Imager and Quantity One Software (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, CA, USA). (ii) Inhibition of HIV-1 RT DNA synthesis was also evaluated to determine IC 50 values using a 5 0 -end-32 P-labeled 19-nt DNA primer (5 0 -TTGTAG CACCATCCAAAGG-3 0 ) that was annealed to oneof three 36-nt DNA templates that contained five consecutive thymine, cytosine or adenosine bases. In this regard, inhibition of HIV-1 RT DNA synthesis by analogs with adenine, guanine or thymine bases were evaluated using the templates (T1, 5
, respectively. The T1 template was used for inhibition of WT and mutant HIV-1 RT DNA synthesis by each of the 6-modified-3 0 -azido-ddGTP analogs. Reaction conditions and gel electrophoresis were identical to those described above except 100 nM of WT or mutant HIV-1 RT was used to initiate the reaction. Reactions were quenched following incubation at 37 C for 10 min. The amount of final product on the denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) gels was quantified by densiometric analysis using Quantity One Software. The concentration of each 6-modified-3 0 -azidoddGTP analog required to inhibit the formation of final product by 50% was calculated using nonlinear regression analyses (SigmaPlot Software Version 11, Systat Software, Inc., San Jose, CA, USA) from at least three independent experiments. Two-tailed homoscedastic t-tests were used to calculate the reported P-values.
Pre-steady-state incorporation of 6-modified-3 0 -azido-ddGTP analogs A rapid quench instrument (Kintek RQF-3 instrument, Kintek Corporation, Clarence, PA, USA) was used for pre-steady-state experiments. The typical experiment was performed at 37 C in 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) containing 50 mM KCl, 10 mM MgCl 2 and varying concentrations of nucleotide. All concentrations reported refer to the final concentrations after mixing. HIV-1 RT (200 nM) was pre-incubated with 20 nM T/P substrate, prior to rapid mixing with nucleotide and divalent metal ions to initiate the reaction that was quenched with 50 mM EDTA. The sequences of the template and 5 0 -radiolabeled primer are shown in Table 1. The quenched samples were then mixed with an equal volume of gel loading buffer and products were separated from substrates as described above. The disappearance of substrate (20mer) and the formation of product (21-mer) were quantified using a Bio-Rad GS525 Molecular Imager (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, CA, USA). Data were fitted by nonlinear regression with Sigma Plot software (Systat Software, Inc., San Jose, CA, USA) using the appropriate equations (9). The apparent burst rate constant (k obs ) for each particular concentration of dNTP was determined by fitting the time courses for the formation of product (21mer) using the following equation: [21mer] = A[1 À exp(Àk obs t)], where A represents the burst amplitude. The turnover number (k pol ) and apparent dissociation constant for dNTP (K d ) were then obtained by plotting the apparent catalytic rates (k obs ) against dNTP concentrations and fitting the data with the following hyperbolic equation: k obs = (k pol [dNTP])/([dNTP]+K d ). Catalytic efficiency was calculated as the ratio of turnover number over dissociation constant ([k pol /K d ]). Selectivity for natural dNTP versus 6-modified-3 0 -azido-ddGTP analog was calculated as the ratio of catalytic efficiency of dNTP over that of the 6-modified-3
Molecular models of incorporation were constructed using the X-ray crystallographic coordinates (PDB entry 1 RTD) for the RT-T/P-TTP ternary complex (10). The 3 0 -OH of the primer strand as well as the 6-modified-3 0 -azido-2 0 ,3-ddGTP analogs and complementary bases in the template strand were built into the model to generate a pre-initiation complex, as described previously (11). Tautomerization and protonation potential of the entire system was calculated using the Generalized Born/Volume Integral (GB/VI) electrostatics method of Labute (12). Energy gradient minimization was carried out using MMFF94x force field in the Molecular Operating Environment (MOE 2008.02; Chemical Computing Group, Montreal, Quebec, Canada). Ligand interactions were quantified and images generated using the LigX interaction function in MOE. Structural models comparing incorporation and excision of specific nucleotide analogs used the PDB co-ordinates 3KLF and 3KLE that contain the excision product AZT adenosine dinucleoside tetraphosphate (AZTppppA) (13). To eliminate the potential force field bias from alignment of bases, empirically derived angle relations were used for all analogs tested. 3KLF and 3KLE were fit to the p66 subunit of 1RTD using the Matchmaker function in Chimera version 1.51 (UCSF Chimera, Resource for Biocomputing, Visualization, and Informatics at the University of California, San Francisco). Aligned structures were opened in MOE and dihedral angles were measured from bases relative to the ribose ring O and C1 of both template and bound nucleotides for each complex. MOE's builder function was used to modify each template/bound nucleotide base pair retaining the experimental dihedrals. Hydrogen-bonding potential between the aligned base pairs was quantified using the 'FindHBond' function in Chimera with default settings. Parts of modeling workflow was automated using Pipeline Pilot 7.5 (Accelrys Corporation, San Diego, CA, USA)
