
This was a cross-sectional study for evaluating health related quality of life in lower limbs amputation veterans of Iran. In the present study, data collected from 38 lower limbs amputation veterans and 50 normal healthy controls that live in all provinces of Iran with face-to-face interview. The control group is matched in gender, education, and age with amputee group. All participants were male. Mean age for amputee group were 43.91 (± 6.21) and for normal healthy subjects were 43.66 (± 6.07). The duration of amputation was 24.55 (± 2.61) years. HRQOL was assessed by means of the Medical Outcomes Research 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), which has been validated in the Iranian population (17). The SF-36 consists of 36 questions integrating eight multi item scales: physical functioning (PF); role limitations caused by physical problems (RP); bodily pain (BP); general health perceptions (GH); vitality, energy, or fatigue (VT); social functioning (SF); role limitations caused by emotional problems (RE), and general mental health (MH). Based on these scales, component summary scores were calculated to provide a global measure of physical and mental functioning; the Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS) were derived from the eight multi-item scales. The scales and summary components ranged from 0 to 100, where higher values denote better functioning and fewer limitations. For each question basis on number of item in Lickert scale, each item pointed from 0 to 100. The SF-36 derived scores did not have a cutoff point to differentiate between good or poor Available at http://ijph.tums.ac.ir HRQOL. This questionnaire had been translated to Persian and validated for Iranian population. The internal consistency (to test reliability) showed that all eight SF-36 scales met the minimum reliability standard, the Cronbach's alpha coefficients ranging from 0.77 to 0.90 with the exception of the vitality scale (alpha = 0.65) (18). Inclusion criteria were amputation of lower limbs veterans based on observation. Veterans were excluded, as were severely mentally handicapped and subjects unable to understand Persian language. The soft ware of SPSS 18 was used for performing the data analysis. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze data.
