
Matrix-free LDI MS detection and imaging. The lipid molecules were initially dissolved in chloroform and ethanol was used for AONB at a concentration of 1 mg/ mL and then diluted in a step wise manner. To perform to MS detection, typically 0.4 mL of the diluted solution was directly deposited on the paper or NALDI TM plate (Bruker Daltonics), for MS analysis on Bruker Autoflex TOF/TOF III Smartbeam. For the standard matrix assisted detection, 0.4 mL of sample solution was mixed with 1 mL of CHCA matrix (10 mg/mL, in acetonitrile/water/trifluoroacetic acid, 50549.950.1%, v/v/v) and dried on the commercial MALDI plate (MPT 384 plain steel) before MS analysis. All mass spectra were obtained in the RP-HPC-Proteomics mode via an accumulation of 500 laser shots under a laser intensity of 36% for data collection and calibrated using an auto calibration method. Two standard peptides, Angiotensin II (M.W. 1046.5) and ACTH-Clip (M.W. 2465.7), were used for calibration to reduce variability. No smoothing of spectra was applied. In the imaging experiments, the stamp with laser engraved letters pattern was first fabricated and immersed into a DOTAP solution at a concentration of 1 ng/mL. The stamp was pressed to the paper substrate separately and then the stamped paper was loaded into the MS chamber for imaging. Matrix-free mass spectrometry imaging was performed on the Bruker Autoflex TOF/TOF III mass analyzer system in positive reflector mode. In the imaging set up, the spot-to-spot distance was set to be 50 mm and 50 laser shots were taken with laser intensity of 36% at each spot. The nitrogen laser (337 nm) was applied at a repetition rate of 200 Hz. A full mass spectrum ranging from 200 to 2000 m/z was acquired for every pixel at an x-y step-size of 50 mm. Imaging data was stored in the FlexImaging data format (Bruker Bioscience). 2D image construction and statistical analysis were executed using custom-made scripts in the FlexImaging software (Bruker Biosicence, AUS). Peak finding and integration was performed for each pixel to select peaks at specific m/z of 380 and 662. Peaks were integrated using a 0.3 Da window.
