
Transthoracic 2D, M-mode, and Doppler imaging were performed in 8 animals per group using a Vivid 7 Ultrasound (GE Healthcare, Aurora, OH) echograph with linear and sectorial probes operated at 14 and 10 MHz, respectively, and data were analyzed using Echopac PC software. Animals were examined 28 days post-bleomycin instillation under isofluran-induced narcosis (2.5%, inhalation). Measurements, performed by 2 sonographers blinded to the treatment groups, were made in accordance with the conventions of the American Society of Echocardiography. M-mode measurements of RV free wall thickness and end-diastolic cavity dimension (left ventricle: LV and RV areas) were measured in the parasternal short axis view, just below the level of the aortic valve, and their ratio was calculated. Pulsed wave Doppler of pulmonary outflow was recorded in the parasternal short axis view at the level of the aortic valve. The sample volume was placed proximal to the pulmonary valve leaflets and aligned to maximize laminar flow. In addition, the PA acceleration time, velocity time integral, and ejection time (ET) were measured. By combining PA velocity time integral, PA area, and heart rate, echographic cardiac output was determined. The tricuspid valve was also evaluated for the presence of tricuspid regurgitation with color and continuouswave Doppler in the apical 4-chamber view; no alteration was detected. At the time of killing, that is, after echocardiography, a rapid excision of the lungs and heart was performed through a ventral thoracotomy, and each organ was weighed. After removal of the atria to the plane of the atrial-ventricular valves, the RV free wall was dissected from the LV and septum. The RV and LV + septum were weighed, and the RV-to-LV + septum ratio (Fulton index) was calculated. Tibia lengths were measured to normalize read outs because animals presented body weight differences between the groups at the end of study. Eight RVs from each group were then processed for quantitative polymerase chain reaction, whereas the remaining samples were used for histological analysis.
Pulmonary arterial wall thickness measurement was adapted from Mouchaers et al 16 to assess pulmonary vascular hypertrophy. Lungs (left lobe) and hearts (RV) were cut sagittally, fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin solution (4% formaldehyde), embedded in paraffin, sectioned at 4 mm, and stained with hematoxylin-eosin, sirius red, and Orcein (lungs only). Slides were examined with Olympus BX46 microscope, DP25 digital camera, and CellSens Standard software version 1.3 (Olympus Corporation, Tokyo, Japan). For each group, 24 transversely cut muscular pulmonary arterioles, ranging from 15 to 100 mm in diameter, were randomly selected, depicted at high-power field (objective ·40), and measured in a blinded fashion. The internal lamina elastic was considered as inner perimeter; therefore, the real caliber was extrapolated independently from the contraction status of the arteries, and then the relative pulmonary arterial wall thickness (RPAWT) was calculated as follows:
