
Approximately 1.5 × 10 4 Rep-Neo cells/well were seeded in a phenol red-free DMEM medium (Invitrogen) with 10% FBS in an opaque (for Rluc assay) or a clear (for cytotoxicity assay) 96-well plate (Corning). At incubating the cells at 37°C for 16 h, medium was replaced with fresh phenol red-free medium containing 2% FBS. The reason for using 2% FBS phenol red-free medium (rather than 10% FBS medium) is to minimize protein binding of compounds. Compounds NITD-008 (a gift from Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases) with 10-fold serial dilutions were added to cells. Cells were also treated with 0.9% DMSO as a negative control. After 48 h of treatment at 37°C, cells were assayed for Rluc activity using ViviRen substrates (Promega) or cell viability using Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8, Sigma) as previously described (Xie et al., 2011). The 50% effective concentration (EC 50 ) and 50% cytotoxicity concentration (CC 50 ) were estimated by using a four-parameter logistic regression model from the GraphPad Prism 5 software (GraphPad Software Inc., San Diego CA). For the antiviral screening assay, we chose ViviRen substrate, rather than Renilla lysis buffer/substrate (as described for transient replicon assay), to improve the assay throughput. This is because ViviRen substrate is able to penetrate into cells, thus eliminating the step of cell lysis during antiviral screening. Fig. 1a depicts the ZIKV replicon containing a Renilla luciferase (Rluc) gene (pZIKV Rep WT). The pZIKV Rep WT was constructed by replacing the viral structural genes with Rluc using a full-length cDNA infectious clone (pFLZIKV) (Shan et al., 2016b). As a control, Rep-NS5ΔGDD was constructed by mutating the viral polymerase GDD active site to Ala (G664A-D665A-D66A in ZIKV; Fig. 1a). A T7 promoter and a hepatitis delta virus ribozyme (HDVr) sequence were engineered at the 5′ and 3′ ends of the replicon cDNA for in vitro transcription and for generation of the authentic 3′ end of the RNA transcript, respectively. Upon transfection into Huh7 cells, wild-type (WT) replicon RNA generated two distinct Rluc peaks (Fig. 1b). The first peak appeared at 2 h post-transfection (p.t.) and decreased from 4 to 8 h. At 24 h p.t., the Rluc signal increased by 200 folds above that of 2 h post-transfection. At 32 h p.t., the Rluc signal reached the second peak. Mutation of the viral polymerase GDD motif (Rep-NS5ΔGDD) abolished the second Rluc peak, but did not affect the first Rluc peak. Collectively, the results indicate that the first and second Rluc peaks represent the translation of the input RNA and the translation of the newly synthesized RNA, respectively. These results are in agreement with the previously reported flavivirus replicons (Lo et al., 2003a).
