
According to the definition, the in-air output factor (Sc) can be written as Figure 1, Eq.2; which numerator and denominator are chamber readings (R) for the same number of monitor units (M) in the presence of a build-up cap for a field with dimensions L and L0 (as a reference field e.g. 10×10cm 2 ) at SSD=100cm and collimator opening CL, C0 respectively. For the total scatter factor, measuring at the dmax in water phantom for a specific field (L) to that reference field (L0) for the same number of monitor units (M) (13), it would be written as Figure 1, Eq.3. To prevent electron contamination of the photon beam, it is recommended that all readings are performed at a depth of d=10 cm and then they are transmitted to the maximum depth using PDD (d) for that field size (14). So, the formula in Figure 1, Eq.4. According to Figure 2., L, L0 (field size), CL, and C0 (collimator opening) are shown as AB, EF, , and respectively. As can be seen in Figure 2, the total scatter factor is obtained by dividing the dosimeter reading which is caused by primary and secondary radiation (S') from two volume VABCD and reference volume VEFGH and then correct for depth d to dmax. The Sp is defined as the ratio of the absorbed dose at the dmax in phantom (water or solid water) Page 3525 for a given field to that in the reference field with the same collimator opening (C0) to eliminate the collimator effect (4). Therefore, the formula in Figure 1, Eq.5. In this study, to maintain the collimator opening for all fields, the phantom surface can be pulled up (for L<L0) or down (for L>L0) Figure 2). For example, for a field smaller than L0, L=AB, it is necessary to pull up phantom surface to J=(L/L0) ×SSD to achieve the same collimator opening. However, care must be which the dosimeter reading at J' needs to be corrected for SSD changes using Mayneord Factor. Therefore; we have to perform dosimetry in several SSDs and the main problem is phantom surface collision with Linac head for small fields. On the other hand, according to Eq. 3 and 5, the difference between the Sp and the total scatter factor is the amount of the collimator opening. Therefore, by considering a correction factor (for the effect of collimator) in the total scatter factor (Eq. 4), Sp can be achieved (Eq.5) as Figure 1, Eq.6. In Figure 2 with regards to the Pythagorean theorem, the trapezoid ABC"D" and A'B'C'D' are equal; therefore, the Sp is obtained by dividing the dosimeter readings at S' form two volume VA'B'C"D" and reference volume VEFGH. In this method, we propose to apply a factor (α) to correct scatter portion reached to the dosimeter (S') from VABCD to VABC"D". As mentioned in previous studies (15, 16), suppose that there is a parallel beam striking the surface of the phantom and consider a reference plane normal to the central axis, placed at depth d=10cm which the origin is on the central axis. Hence, each element (dx.dy) on this plane acts as a source of scattered radiation. The amount of scatter radiation reaching the central axis (dosimeter location, S') is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between surface elements and the origin. Therefore, with taking into account the photon attenuation µ, α is defined as Figure 1, Eq.7; Where µ is energy attenuation coefficient which depends on energy, field size and depth (17, 18). Therefore, the formula in Figure 1, Eq.8. α will be greater or lesser than 1 while phantom surface was pulled up or down respectively. Let us eliminate the small area at the origin of the coordinate with radius ε (refers to the ion chamber radius =3mm) to overcome singularity in nominator and denominator in Eq.7 and use polar system Figure 3). Therefore, the scatter contribution to dosimeter location (S') for a rectangular field with dimensions (2Y × 2X) Figure 3) is calculated as Figure 1, Eq.9. Finally, a general computer program using MATLAB 7.12.0 software was written to calculate α using the numerical method to solve Eq. 9.
