
Prior to conducting the full study, we completed a pilot study to confirm the accuracy of knee ROM measurements obtained using an electrogoniometer (SG150, Biometrics Ltd., UK), which was used as the criterion value for the evaluation of the measurement error of the universal goniometer. A standardized procedure was used to position the electrogoniometer for the recording of knee joint ROM positions. The electrogoniometer was attached to the right leg using double-sided tape, with the knee flexed to 60°. The proximal point of attachment was localized 1 cm from the lateral epicondyle of the femur, along a line connecting the greater trochanter and the lateral epicondyle of the femur. The distal point of attachment was localized 1 cm from the head of the fibula, along a line connecting the head of the fibula and the lateral malleolus. The bony landmarks used as a reference for the localization of the electrogoniometer were identified by palpation and marked. A thin string was attached with tape between both pairs of landmarks (i.e., greater trochanter and lateral epicondyle of the femur; head of the fibula and lateral malleolus). The thin string was used as a guide to attach the electrogoniometer. Once the electrogoniometer was placed and secured, an elastic wrap was used to prevent slipping of the electrogoniometer during measurements, as well as to hide its position from the participants performing measurements using a universal goniometer. Reflective markers were then placed over the bony landmarks, namely the greater trochanter, lateral epicondyle of the femur, head of the fibula, and lateral malleolus to visualize their positions on digital images captured obtained by a two-camera system (B-CAM, DKH, Japan). Passive knee ROM was measured by one experimenter, from full extension to maximum flexion, with the experimenter taking care to maintain the knee motion in the sagittal plane, avoiding adduction/abduction and internal/external rotation motions of the hip as much as possible. The measurement was recorded by the two-camera system with the signals between the cameras and the electrogoniometer synchronized using a trigger switch. The knee joint position data obtained from the electrogoniometer and the imaging data captured by the cameras were analyzed using a motion analysis system (Frame-DIAS V, DKH, Japan). For the imaging data, the knee joint angle was defined as the angle formed by the line connecting the greater trochanter and the lateral epicondyle and the line connecting the head of the fibula and the lateral malleolus. Agreement between the imaging and electrogoniometer data was evaluated by simple linear regression, using the imaging data as the dependent variable and the electrogoniometer data as the independent variable. The level of agreement between the electrogoniometer and imaging data was high at knee flexion angles of 20° to 90° (y=0.960x, R 2 =0.998, p<0.001). Therefore, we used this range of knee motion for the main experiment. Statistical analyses were performed with IBM SPSS Statistics software (ver. 23).
The following variables were used in the analysis: level of proficiency, defined as the number of years since receiving basic instruction in goniometry measurement; measurement error; and measurement time. The means and standard deviations (SD) of the measurement error and measurement time were calculated for the proficiency level (1-6 years). Reproducibility of the end-point of knee ROM by the volunteer was evaluated for the first (60°) and second (75°) trials by calculating the mean and SD of the values recorded by the electrogoniometer. The absolute measurement error was calculated as the difference between the ROM measure of the electrogoniometer and the measure reported by the participants. The mean, SD and 95% confidence interval (CI) of the absolute error was calculated for each proficiency level. Split-plot analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to evaluate the effect of proficiency level on the absolute measurement error and measurement time as dependent variables. A Bland-Altman analysis was performed to evaluate the presence or absence of systematic bias in the ROM measurements obtained using a universal goniometer. The differences between the measurements obtained with the electrogoniometer and the universal goniometer were plotted along the y-axis, with the mean of both measurements plotted along the x-axis. The mean difference (md), SD of the md (SD dif ), and 95% CI of the md were calculated to identify systematic (fixed) errors. A simple linear regression analysis was performed to identify possible proportional bias. The magnitude of the random error in measurement was evaluated by calculating the MDC at the 95% CI level (MDC 95 ) as follows: MDC 95 =1.96 SD dif . All statistical analyses were performed using IBM SPSS Statistics software (ver. 23).
