
In situ caspase-8 activity assay. To detect caspase-8 activity in situ in living microglia, a caspase-8 detection kit containing a specific and fluorescent FAM-LETD-fmk that covalently labels active caspase-8 was used according to the manufacturer's instruction (Image-iTs LIVE Green Caspase-8 Detection Kit, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA). After live labeling of active caspase-8, microglia were fixed and subjected to immunocytochemistry as specified in the Figure 1 legend. Images were captured using a fluorescence microscope equipped with an Olympus DP70 digital camera. On the basis of the intracellular location of active caspase-8, the percentage of microglia with cytoplasmic diffuse caspase-8 signal (C-casp-8) and localized active caspase-8 (L-casp-8) was counted and analyzed across treatment conditions. Detection of intracellular ROS. Intracellular ROS production was evaluated by flow cytometry using the superoxide indicator hydroethidine (HE) 41,58,59 and visualized by fluorescence microscopy. Briefly, freshly isolated primary rat microglia were treated in suspension as specified in Figure 7 legend. At the end of the treatment, cells were incubated with 1mM HE and 10 nM Sytox green nucleic acid stain for 20 min at 37 1C, centrifuged at 100 Â g, resuspended in 100 ml of PBS containing 2% FBS and analyzed immediately using a flow cytometer equipped with 488 nm laser for excitation (Accuri C6, BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA, USA). Data were collected using FL1 for Sytox green nucleic acid stain (530±15 nm) or FL2 channel for HE (585±20 nm). A minimum of 10 000 cells were analyzed per condition. For time lapse microscopy, microglia seeded in slide chambers were loaded with 1 mM HE and 10 nM Sytox for 20 min, washed and subjected to LPS (0.1 ng/ml)/ zVAD-fmk (25 mM) stimulation. Images were manually acquired from the same chamber field at specified time points. To minimize photobleaching, cells were imaged with o0.5 s of exposure time for each filter. Fluorescence intensity of representative cells was analyzed withImage J (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA).
Reverse transcription -PCR. Transcriptional expression levels of RIP1, RIP3, Iba1, TNFa, and b-actin in microglia upon stimulation with LPS and zVADfmk were examined as described previously. 57 Using Tri reagent, total RNA was extracted according to the manufacturer's instructions. Residual DNA was digested by incubating RNA samples with DNase I for 15 min at room temperature followed by DNase inactivation at 65 1C for 10 min according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). The samples were reverse transcribed to cDNA using the reverse transcription system kit (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) as described previously. 57 Primers specific for b-actin were used as a loading control. All products were amplified by PCR using 50 ng of cDNA and the following specific primers: RIP1, forward 5 0 -GCACCAGCTGTCAGGGCCAG-3 0 , reverse 5 0 -GCCCAGCTTTCGGGCACAGT-3 0 ; RIP3, forward 5 0 -ACCTTGGCTGGCACTC CCCA-3 0 , reverse 5 0 -CCCCTGCCGAACTGTGCTGG-3 0 ; TNFa, forward 5 0 -GCC CACGTCGTAGCAAAC-3 0 , reverse 5 0 -GCAGCCTTGTCCCTTGAA-3 0 ; Iba1, forward 5 0 -CTTTTGGACTGCTGAAAGCC-3 0 , reverse 5 0 -GTTTCTCCAGCATTC GCTTC-3 0 ; and b-actin, forward 5 0 -AGACTTCGAGCAGGAGATGG-3 0 , reverse 5 0 -CCATCATGAAGTGTGACGTTG-3 0 . After the PCR reaction, products were electrophoresed on 2% agarose gels and visualized under UV light using a Bio-Rad Chemidoc XRS gel documentation system and Quantity-one software.
Transmission electron microscopy. After a quick wash with PBS, microglia were fixed in 1% glutaraldehyde and 4% paraformaldehyde (Electron Microscopy 225 Sciences, Hatflield, PA, USA) in 0.1 M, pH 7.4 phosphate buffer overnight at 4 1C. Following three washes with 8% sucrose in 0.1 M phosphate buffer, the cells were washed again in 0.1 M sodium cacodylate buffer and stained with 1% osmium tetroxide and 0.5% potassium ferrocyanide in 0.5% sucrose for 1.5 h. The cells were then dehydrated in ascending alcohol series and embedded in epoxy resin. Ultrathin sections of microglia were examined using an FEI Morgagni 268 transmission electron microscope at an accelerating voltage of 80 kV. Digital images were acquired with a MegaViewIII camera operated with iTEM software (Olympus Soft Imaging Systems, Germany).
Statistical analysis. All cell culture treatments were performed in at least triplicate samples. GraphPad prism software (San Diego, CA, USA) was used for data analyses. Data were expressed as mean ± S.E.M. and analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni's post hoc test unless stated otherwise. Differences were considered to be statistically significant when Po0.05.
