
In the developing nervous system, Reelin is produced mainly by Cajal-Retzius neurons in the cortex, where it instructs newly born neurons to assume their position and orientation (D'Arcangelo et al., 1995; Tissir and Goffinet, 2003). During this process, the neurons are intimately apposed to radial glial cells that form a scaffold along which the neuroblasts migrate, and both cell types rely on Reelin signaling to direct correct patterning of the cortex (Hartfuss et al., 2003; Tissir and Goffinet, 2003; Keilani and Sugaya, 2008; Zhao and Frotscher, 2010). In the lymphatic system, we found that Reelin was produced exclusively by ECs, while its release and proteolytic processing was stimulated by the adjacent SMCs. This suggests a mechanism by which Reelin signaling is activated via communication of the two cell types that form the collecting vessels. We further found that LECs, in turn, respond to Reelin by upregulating the expression of monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP1), a factor known to promote SMC migration and proliferation (Religa et al., 2005; Ma et al., 2008; Aplin et al., 2010). This suggests an autocrine function of Reelin in the LECs in controlling the expression of factors involved in SMC recruitment. Interestingly, although the canonical Reelin receptors VLDLR and ApoER2 were expressed in the lymphatic vasculature, Apoer2;Vldlr double mutant mice did not recapitulate the phenotype observed in Reln-deficient lymphatic vessels.littermate controls (n = 3 per each genotype, two vessels per mouse). The images were aligned and processed using Photoshop CS4 or CS5 (Adobe). Thresholding and quantification of the whole-vessel images were performed using MetaMorph Imaging software (Molecular Devices). An inclusive threshold was applied to the -SMA channel so that the background was captured by, while all SMC were excluded from, the threshold. The length of the vessel was measured and divided into quarters. A region was drawn around each vessel segment, excluding overlapping blood vessels. The SMC coverage was calculated and subtracted from 100%. A similar thresholding technique was used to quantify the percentage of LVYE-1 immunofluorescence. The line tool in MetaMorph was used to measure the width of the widest and narrowest vessel points.
For qualitative analysis of lymphatic vessel function, FITC-dextran (8 mg/ml in PBS; Sigma-Aldrich) was injected intradermally into the ears of anaesthetized mice and analyzed by confocal microscopy. For quantitative analysis, 2 µl of ICG dye (1% in dH 2 O; Sigma-Aldrich) was injected into the footpads of anaesthetized mice inside the IVIS Spectrum Whole Body Imaging System (Caliper Life Sciences). Image acquisition and analysis was performed with Living Image 3 software (Caliper Life Sciences) using the following parameters: field of view 6.6, binning 8, and F-stop 2. 70 images were taken with a 2-s exposure time and no delay between acquisitions, which resulted in an image every 3-4 s. The efficiency of the fluorescent signal was measured in a region of interest (ROI) created around a small area of the lymphatic vessel above the knee. The mean efficiency against time was plotted using Prism 5 software, using 4 s as an interval. For the quantitative Evans blue assay, 2 µl Evan's blue dye (2%; Sigma-Aldrich) was injected into the hind limb footpad. After 5 min, the mice were sacrificed and inguinal lymph nodes were dissected. Both inguinal lymph nodes were weighed together and a mean value was used to calculate dye content in each of them separately. Each lymph node was placed in 5 µl formamide at 60°C for 24 h, followed by an absorbance reading at 620 nm. Evans blue concentration was calculated using a standard curve and presented as dye content per gram of tissue.
To identify lymphatic-specific ECM molecules, mesenteric arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels were dissected from P7 wild-type (C57BL/6J) pups. Samples from nine animals (in two litters) were pooled. Total RNA was extracted and RNase-treated using an RNeasy Micro kit (QIAGEN) as per the manufacturer's instructions. 100 ng of RNA from two independent samples of each vessel was amplified using WT-Ovation Pico RNA Amplification System (NuGEN) and used for expression profiling using the Mouse exon 1.0 ST Array (Affymetrix), according to the manufacturer's instructions. The array data were processed using robust multiarray analysis (Irizarry et al., 2003) to generate gene-level signal estimates for core level probe sets. The arrays were normalized using quantile normalization and antigenomic probes used to model the background. Quantification was run using apt-1.10.0 from Affymetrix. Before statistical analysis, all Affymetrix control probe sets were removed. Gene changes were selected using a linear model where the standard errors were corrected using empirical Bayes shrinkage (fdr < 0.05). To identify lymphatic-specific transcriptional changes, we applied a nestedF procedure across the three contrasts, selecting genes significant in only the lymphatic groups (fdr < 0.05). Analysis was performed in Bioconductor (Gentleman et al., 2004) using Limma. Genes that were expressed at least twofold higher in different vessel types were searched in Uniprot database to identify proteins involved in ECM function or structure.
Confocal images for Figs. 2 (B and C), 3 (G and H), 6 (C-E), S3 (A-D), and S5 (F-H), were acquired at room temperature using a confocal microscope (LSM 710; Zeiss Imager.Z2 and Zen 2009 software; Carl Zeiss) with a Plan-Apochromat 20×/0.8 NA air objective lens (Fig. 6, C -E; and Fig. S5, F-H) or DIC Plan-Apochromat 40×/1.3 NA water immersion objective lens (Fig. 2, B and C; Fig. 3, G and H; and Fig. S3, A-D). All other confocal images were acquired using an LSM 510 microscope (Axioplan 2 and LSM 510 version 3.2 software; all from Carl Zeiss), with Plan-Apochromat 10×/0.45 NA (Fig. S2, A-D) or 20×/0.75 NA (Fig. 4, A and B; and Fig. S2, E and F) air objective lenses, or Korr C-Apochromat 63×/1.2 NA (Fig. S1, G and H) or 40×/1.2 NA (all other images) water immersion objective lenses. All confocal images, except Fig. S1 (G and H), represent maximum projection images of confocal z stacks. For visualization of collecting vessels from the proximal to distal end of the ear, images were captured along the length of three randomly chosen collecting lymphatic vessels from Reln / (n = 5) and wild-type (n = 4) mice. The same analysis was performed for Apoer2 / ;Vldlr / , Dab1 Scm , and their respective Transwell migration assay Migration assay was performed using 6.5-mm Transwell with 8 µm polycarbonate membrane inserts (Corning) in a 24-well plate. The lower face of the membrane was coated with 1 µg/ml fibronectin (Sigma-Aldrich) before use. Confluent HUVSMC were serum-deprived in SMC growth medium containing 0.2% BSA for 22 h. 1 × 10 5 cells were seeded in the upper chamber and allowed to migrate toward EC growth medium (control) or conditioned medium collected from LECs over a 48-h period, full-length Reelin supernatant from HEK 293 cells (diluted 1:20), control supernatant (diluted 1:20), 10 ng/ml MCP-1 (R&D Systems), or 3 ng/ml PDGF-BB (R&D Systems) over a 23-h period. Reelin function was inhibited using blocking antibody against Reelin (CR-50, 50 µg/ml; MBL). Cells on the upper face of the membrane were removed and migrated cells on the lower face were fixed and stained with 0.5% crystal violet solution in 25% methanol. Images of the filters were acquired with a stereomicroscope (MZ16 F) equipped with a camera (DFC420C) and Microsystems software (all from Leica). After photographing, the incorporated dye was solubilized in 0.2 ml sodium citrate solution, followed by absorbance reading at 550 nm.
