
Identification of genes that respond differently to vorinostat treatment in normal and transformed fibroblasts. We identified probe sets that responded differently to vorinostat treatment in matched normal andtransformed cells (contrast probe sets) at any of the three time points (relative to time 0 h), as we hypothesized that contrast gene expression might underpin the different biological responses of donor-matched cells to vorinostat treatment. In total, 5959 contrast probe sets were identified and these were differently regulated by vorinostat in terms of either the direction (induction or repression) or the magnitude (degree of induction or repression) of the vorinostat response in BJ and BJ LTSTERas cells. Of the 5959 contrast probe sets, 2945 were equally expressed in untreated normal and tumor cells. However, 6226 of the 9240 probe sets with basal expression differences did not respond differently to vorinostat in the two cell types. These data indicated that the basal gene expression levels did not determine the capacity of genes to differently respond to vorinostat treatment in BJ and BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts. GO and pathway analyses were performed on the contrast gene list using the Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) tool (Figure 3b). 'Cell Death' was the most significantly represented molecular and cellular function associated with contrast genes (false discovery rate
We further analyzed the contrast responses, in particular those genes that were selectively or hyper-induced in BJ LTSTERas cells compared with BJ cells, using GO analyses and the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) tool (Supplementary Tables 1-3). Genes involved in 'induction of programmed cell death' (P ¼ 0.0130) and 'apoptotic program' (P ¼ 0.0024) were over-represented in vorinostat-treated BJ LSTRas cells compared with BJ cells (Supplementary Tables 1-3). Many genes encoding components of the intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathway wereselectively induced in BJ LTSTERas cells. A candidate approach was subsequently undertaken to more thoroughly investigate the transcriptional regulation of apoptotic pathway components by vorinostat using the IPA program. Vorinostat treatment resulted in decreased expression of TNFRSF6 (FAS), TNFRSF10A (DR4/TRAILR1) and TNFRSF1A (TNFa receptor) in both normal and transformed fibroblasts (Figures 4a and b). Only a mild tumor-selective induction of TNFRSF10B (DR5/TRAILR2) was observed. We did not observe any transcriptional modulation of genes encoding death receptor ligands in response to vorinostat in either cell type (Figures 4a and b). Moreover, the genes encoding FADD (FADD), caspase 8 (CASP8) and BID were downregulated in BJ and BJ LTSTERas, suggesting that death receptor signaling was transcriptionally repressed by vorinostat in BJ and BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts. Collectively, the downregulation of genes encoding receptors, adaptors and proteolytic intermediaries in the death receptor pathway suggested that the extrinsic apoptotic pathway was unlikely to play a substantial role in promoting selective apoptosis of BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts.
Our data suggest that pro-death gene expression changes are likely to be important for the tumor-selective effects of HDACi; however, it is not yet known whether the HDACi signatures are driven by histone hyperacetylation in the promoters of specific loci and/or if gene modulation is due to the altered activities of transcription regulators. A recent report demonstrated a correlation between vorinotatmediated induction of BMF, NOXA and BCL2L11 and histone H4 hyperacetylation within the promoter regions of these genes following HDACi treatment. 42 Whether such a correlation between HDACi-mediated selective induction of gene expression and promoter histone acetylation occurs on a global scale and is the basis for the tumor cell-specific effects of these anti-cancer agents remains to be determined.In vitro cell death analysis. BJ fibroblasts (5 Â 10 4 cells) were seeded into wells of six-well plates (Greiner Bio-One, Stonehouse, UK). BMEC (1 Â 10 5 cells) were seeded into 0.1% gelatin coated six-well plates. Cells were allowed to adhere overnight. Immediately prior to each experiment, spent media was replaced with fresh media and drugs/vehicles were added to working concentrations from stock solutions. At nominated time points, all floating and adherent cells (detached by trypsinization) were collected, washed with PBS, stained for viability markers and analyzed by flow cytometry. Mitochondrial outer-membrane permeability was measured with tetramethyl-rhodamine ethyl ester (TMRE-Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) 46 and DNA content determined by propidium iodide staining as previously described. 16,17 Cell viability was measured by propidium iodide uptake and Annexin-V-APC staining. Briefly, cells were resuspended in annexin-V binding buffer (10 mM Hepes pH 7.4, 140 mM NaCl, 5 mM CaCl 2 ) containing 1/200 dilution of annexin-V-APC (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA) and 1/100 dilution of PI citrate buffer. Cells were analyzed using LSRII and FACSCanto II flow cytometers (BD Biosciences).Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. RNA was prepared from vehicle-and drug-treated cells (1 Â 10 6 ) using 1 ml TRIzol reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). RNA was resuspended in diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC)-treated, autoclaved MQH 2 O and first-strand cDNA was subsequently prepared using a random primer technique according to the manufacturer's instructions (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). Quantitative real-time PCR reactions were performed in triplicate using the SYBR green detection method in a 384-well plate format. Amplification and fluorescence detection was performed in a 7900 HT fast real-time PCR system with SDS v2.3 software (Applied Biosystems, Grand Island, NY, USA). Initial denaturation of template and enzyme activation was performed at 95 1C for 15 min followed by 40 cycles of 95 1C for 30 s, 65 1C for 30 s. Dissociation protocols were always performed for each qRT-PCR reaction to ensure the presence of a single 'major' amplification product per well. An average Ct value for the three technical replicates was calculated for each sample. Fold-change expression of 'test' mRNA was determined relative to RPL32 expression using the 2 À DDCt method. Expression fold-change over time was plotted relative to mRNA expression at the 0 h time point.Microarray differential expression analyses. Intensities from the Affymetrix arrays were background corrected, normalized and summarized using the GC-Robust Multi-Array Analysis (GC-RMA) algorithm. 47 Probe sets were defined by the default Affymetrix HG U133 plus 2.0 chip definition file. Boxplots of expression intensities and RNA degradation plots confirmed good consistent quality of the samples and the hybridizations. Microarray data are available through the Gene Expression Omnibus, GEO accession number GSE43010.
Differential expression analysis of the normalized log2-expression values was performed using the Bioconductor software package limma. 48 All the arrays were analyzed together using a linear model. Empirical Bayes moderated t-tests were used to assess differential expression between the BJ and BJLTSTERas fibroblasts and between untreated and treated cells. 48-50 Specifically, baseline differences between the cell lines were identified by comparing untreated BJ and to BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts at time 0 h. Probe sets responding to DMSO or vorinostat were identified by comparing each of the 4, 12 or 24 h time points back to untreated cells, and this was done separately for BJ and BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts. For all comparisons, probe sets were considered to be significantly differentially expressed if the fold-change exceeded 1.5 (i.e., 50% difference in expression) and the FDR was o0.05. 51 Probe sets responding differently to vorinostat treatment in BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts as compared with BJ cells (i.e., contrast genes), were identified using empirical Bayes moderated F-tests. 49,50 F-tests allowed us to combine information across the three treatment time points, looking for probe-sets with differing responses at any of the times. First we used an F-test to find probe sets whose gene expression changes (from 0 h to any of 4, 12 or 24 h vorinostat treatment) were different in BJ fibroblasts compared with BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts. This test is analogous to testing for interaction in a two-way ANOVA. Second, we subtracted from this list any probe set whose expression response to vorinostat could not be distinguished from that to DMSO (the vehicle control). To do this, we used an F-test to find probe sets whose response to vorinostat relative to DMSO was different between BJ fibroblasts and BJ LTSTERas fibroblasts at any of the paired time points. Only probe sets detected by both the above F-tests were retained in the contrast list. The final contrast list contained therefore only bona fide vorinostatresponding genes. For all F-tests, probe sets were considered statistically significant if the FDR was o0.05 and at least one comparison involved in the test achieved a 1.5-fold change.
GO analyses. Gene lists were tested for over-represented GO terms using the DAVID website. 52 The Affymetrix HG U133 Plus 2.0 Array served as the background gene list. Only GO terms at specificity levels 4 or 5 within the directed acyclic graph hierarchy defined by the GO Consortium were included. 53 The minimum hit threshold was set to 3. Over-represented GO terms were ordered by the EASE score P-value, a conservative modification of Fisher's Exact test designed to de-prioritise annotation terms containing very small numbers of genes. 54 Ingenuity pathway analyses. Gene lists and log2 expression fold-changes were uploaded into the IPA tool (Ingenuity Systems, www.ingenuity.com). When more than one probe set mapped to the same gene, the probe set with the largest fold-change was used. Pathways and interaction maps were constructed using the path designer function, with expression changes overlayed onto the pathways. Gene lists were also analyzed in IPA for overrepresented cellular and molecular functions and for association with disease. P-values were adjusted by the Benjamini and Hochberg algorithm to control the FDR at o5%.
Connectivity map analyses. Probe sets with statistically significantly (F-test) responses to vorinostat at any time were ranked by their expression fold-change at 24 h versus 0 h, and this was performed separately for BJ and BJ LTSTERas cells. The 500 most induced and 500 most repressed probe sets were uploaded into the Connectivity Map (Cmap) v02 (http://www.broad.mit.edu/cmap). Cmap ranked drug compounds with gene expression signatures similar to the uploaded gene lists on the basis of connectivity P-values and enrichment scores. 25 Cmap required Affymetrix HG U133A probe set identifiers, so the identifiers from our HG U133 Plus 2.0 Arrays were mapped back to equivalent HG 133A probe sets using the NetAffx analysis center (http://www.affymetrix.com/analysis/ index.affx).
