
BlastP algorithm was used to predict sequence homologs of ScoRsrA from NCBI nr database (ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih .gov/blast/db/). Multiple sequence alignment and generation of phylogenetic tree were done by using MEGA4 software (31). A probable structure of ScoRsrA was created based on the determined structure of R. sphaeroides ChrR (3; PDB ID:2Z2S) by usingModeller program (32), and was visualized through PyMOL (33). Sequence logos were generated by using TEXshade (34,35).
We constructed a phylogenetic tree using a neighborjoining algorithm provided by MEGA4 program Figure 1). Four reported redox-insensitive ZAS members were included in the phylogenetic analysis for comparison. These are RspChrR, BsuYlaD, BsuRsiW and ScoRsuA. Only the N-terminal ASD domain was included in multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree construction. The phylogenetic tree demonstrated that the majority of the retrieved homologs cluster closely with ScoRsrA (Group I), next to the second cluster (Group II), which harbors CglRshA from C. glutamicum (25). Known insensitive ZAS genes were clustered within Groups III and IV. For experimental analysis, we selected nine candidates from dispersed branches of group I and group II clusters (Figure 1, open circles); Rv3221A (MtuRshA), MSMEG_1915 (M. smegmatis), BlinB_ 010200019545 (Brevibacterium linens), nfa45830 (Nocardia farcinica), RHA1_ro06382 (Rhodococcus jostii), FRAAL6009 (Frankia alni), Tfu_0549 (Thermobifida fusca), DIP0710 (C. diphtheria) and AAur_2640 (Arthrobacter aurescens). A candidate from a branch in Group IV, NCgl0852 (C. glutamicum), was also selected for experimental analysis. The corresponding genes were synthesized through PCR amplification of chromosomal DNA as described in 'Materials and Methods' section. We Figure 1. Phylogenetic relatedness of ScoRsrA homologs. A neighbor-joining tree of RsrA homologs were constructed by using MEGA4 with default parameters. In addition to 104 homologs retrieved by BlastP, ZAS factors which have been reported to be insensitive to oxidation (marked with diamonds) were included in the tree. Only the ASD that corresponds to ScoRsrA in each entry was compared. Sequence information for all entries is provided in the Supplementary Table S3. Reported redox-senstive RsrA homologs were marked with close circles. MtuRshA_M_tuberculosis_and_M_bovis represents 25 identical sequences from M. tuberculosis or M. bovis strains. The 10 homologs whose redox-sensitivity was experimentally examined in this study were marked with open circles. Homologs from non-actinobacteria were marked with open triangles. cloned these genes in pSET152H to replace the rsrA gene in the sigR-rsrA operon of S. coelicolor as diagramed in Figure 2A. The resulting hybrid operons were introduced into the chromosome of DsigRrsrA strain through the att site. If the product of the cloned gene behaves similarly to ScoRsrA, it is expected to bind SigR in S. coelicolor and keep it inactive under non-stressed condition, but will release SigR to transcribe its target genes under oxidative stress conditions. We analyzed transcripts from SigRdependent sigRp2 and trxBp1 promoters by S1 mapping in various recombinant S. coelicolor strains before and after treatment with 0.5-mM diamide for varying lengths of time. Figure 2B shows representative S1 results, which demonstrate that several homologs behave similarly as ScoRsrA and thus deserve to be called its orthologs.SigR activation as ScoRsrA did. MtuRshA (Rv3221A) was less efficient in sequestering ScoSigR under nonstressed condition, resulting in higher basal-level expression. However, it responded to diamide induction as expected (12). On the other hand, those from Corynebacterium spp. (NCgl0852 and DIP0710) appeared inactive in binding SigR, since the basal-level expression of both sigRp2 and trxBp1 transcripts were constitutively high regardless of diamide treatment. Therefore, it is not possible to assess their redox sensitivity by our analyses. Considering a difference in GC content between Corynebacterium (54%) and S. coelicolor (72%) genomes, there also exist a possibility that not enough corynebacterial ZAS proteins are expressed due to codon bias and other post-transcriptional defects. We quantified S1 results from more than three independent experiments for each recombinant strain, and presented diamide sensitivity of each homolog as fold-induction values compared with the unstressed level (Supplementary Figure S1). This analysis, therefore, allowed us to identify seven new redox-sensitive ZAS factors, which appear to be functional orthologs of ScoRsrA in binding sigma factor SigR and responding to thiol oxidative stress.
Multiple sequence alignment of ASDs from nine redoxsensitive and five insensitive ZAS factors reveal residues that are conserved across all ZAS and those that are restricted to redox-sensitive ZAS from actinomycetes Figure 3). In order to delineate broadly functional residues from subfamily-specific residues in a more systematic way, we compared differentially conserved sequence patterns by constructing sequence logos through TEXshade package (34,35). Figure 3 demonstrated conserved sequence logo of all 14 ZAS members, and a differentially conserved logo of experimentally validated sensitive ZAS (nos 1-9) and insensitive ZAS (nos 10-14). Residues around the HCC motif (from K33 to E46 in ScoRsrA) show some differentially conserved pattern in sensitive versus insensitive ZAS proteins. There are also highly conserved residues among sensitive ZAS such as L22, D23, E25, Y48, E51, K55, C62, P68, L71 and R72. However, from sequence gazing, it is not possible to distinguish residues that are conserved across actinomycetes from those that may contribute to redox sensitivity. We therefore proceeded to examine the contribution of the region that surrounds the conserved ZAS motif to determining redox sensitivity.
We created recombinant proteins by exchanging residues from K33 to K47 in ScoRsrA with the corresponding residues (V26 to H40) in RsiW from B. subtilis (Figure 4A). The truncated version of RsiW (T-RsiW) that contains only the N-terminal 87 amino acid of ASD without trans-membrane and extracellular domains was modified to make the recombinant. The secondary structure of the swapped product (ST-RsiW) was predicted unchanged by Jnet program (39). The recombinant B. subtilis strains that harbor either T-rsiW or ST-rsiW genes in place of the wild-type rsiW were examined to determine whether diamide can induce SigW-specific gene expression. Production of ST-RsiW or T-RsiW was controlled by IPTG (14), and the amount of auto-regulated sigW transcripts following diamide treatment was examined by S1 mapping. Figure 4B demonstrates that when T-RsiW is induced, sigW expression is drastically reduced, confirming the ability of T-RsiW to bind and sequester SigW. Treatment with diamide did not activate SigW at all, and the sigW gene Figure 3. Multiple sequence alignment and sequence logo of ScoRsrA homologs. Mulitple sequence alignment was carried out by using MEGA4, followed by manual curation. Sequence logos were produced by using TEXshade. The secondary structure prediction is based on the structural information of RspChrR (PDB;2Z2S). For alignment, we trimmed both N-terminal and C-terminal residues that extend beyond the ScoRsrA sequence. The nucleotide sequencing identified some sequence differences from the public database, and we used modified sequences for BlinB_010200019545, AAur_2640 and FRAAL6009 (+; Supplementary Table S3). Asterisk indicates entries that contain C-terminal domains in addition to ASD. expression was even lowered compared with the unstressed level. Production of ST-RsiW reduced the sigW gene expression by $60%, indicating some partial binding of SigW by ST-RsiW. When diamide was treated, the expression level increased up to about 4-fold after 40 min of treatment, and then decreased to the basal level at 80 min. This result demonstrates that the HCC region of ScoRsrA conferred redox sensitivity to the insensitive RsiW.
