
HRCT scans were performed in 0.69 mm slices with a CT scanner (Sensation 16, Siemens Medical Systems, Munich, Germany). After the imaging data were stored in a Digital Imaging and Communication in Medicine (DICOM) file, they were imported to a personal computer. All scanning was performed at constant window level and width settings of 300 and 330 H, because every change in the window level and width settings resulted in deviating values with respect to the muscle size on CT scan. The coronal reconstructions were modified using 3D-DOCTOR software (Able Software Co., Lexington, MA, USA), so that the nasal floor in the coronal and sagittal planes was horizontal. Sequential coronal planes were observed using 3D-DOCTOR software and simultaneous multiplanar reconstructions in bone algorithm format were reconstructed in the axial and sagittal planes. The positions of the coronal plane on which the measurements were taken were defined as the AE (anterior wall of bulla ethmoidalis that was removed first during anterior ethmoidectomy), BL (the basal lamella through which posterior ethmoidectomy was performed), and PE (the midportion of the posterior ethmoid sinus in the sagittal plane) in order to evaluate the intraorbital structures in view of the ethmoidectomy [11]. Through multiplanar reconstructions, the coronal planes that were equivalent to the positions of the AE, BL, and PE were identified exactly.
To evaluate the position of the trochlea of the SO, the relationship between the trochlea and the opening of the frontal sinus (FO) was assessed in the parasagittal plane. The imaginary point, which was equivalent to the position of the trochlea coronally and axially, was drawn in the parasagittal plane, which was equivalent to the midportion of the FO. The vertical distance from the frontal beak to imaginary point, anteroposterior distance from the anterior wall of the frontal sinus to imaginary point, and anteroposterior distance from the frontal beak to imaginary point were measured in the parasagittal plane. In addition, the horizontal distance from the midline to the trochlea was measured in the coronal plane, where the trochlea was identified Fig. 4). Statistical analysis was done using SPSS ver. 18 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Statistical comparisons between genders and laterality were performed using t-test. Pearson's correlations were applied to define the relationship of the measurements with aging. A P-value of less than 0.05 was considered significant.
