
Chemical structures were retrieved either from PubChem (https:// pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/, accessed in March 2012) or ChemSpider (http:// www.chemspider.com/, accessed in March 2012) databases using chemical names. Chemicals were removed if their structures could not be found. Each dataset was carefully curated according to previously established guidelines (Fourches et al., 2010). Briefly, counterions were removed, whereas specific chemotypes such as aromatic and nitro groups were normalized using the ChemAxon Standardizer (v.5.3, ChemAxon, Budapest, Hungary,http://www.chemaxon.com). The presence of duplicates, i.e., identical compounds reported more than once in the same dataset, is known to lead to over-optimistic estimations of the predictivity for developed QSAR models. However, the analysis of such records also gives an estimate of the dataset quality: if activity data for the same compound are consistent, the overall data quality is high; if there is a large deviation in experimental values between different records of the same compound, the quality is, obviously, low. Thus, after the structural standardization, the duplicates were identified using ISIDA Duplicates (Varnek et al., 2008) and HiT QSAR (Kuz'min et al., 2008) software and carefully analyzed. If the experimental properties associated with two duplicative structures were identical, or highly similar, then one compound was chosen at random and deleted. However, if their experimental properties were significantly different, we deleted both records from the dataset. During the curation of human skin permeability dataset, we found 17 pairs of duplicate structures and two sets of triplicates as shown in Table S3. The permeability values for duplicative records were almost identical (logKp variation ~ 0.01 LU) except those for butanoic acid that had a variation higher than ca. 0.4 LU. Thus, the LogKp value for all 17 compounds was averaged and the duplicative records were removed so that only one permeability coefficient was used for a chemical compound.
Hierarchical Cluster Analysis-The clustering of a chemical dataset consists of merging compounds into distinct clusters of chemically similar molecules [see (Downs and Barnard, 2003; Mercier, 2003) for a review of the most popular clustering approaches used in computational chemistry]. In this study, we have employed the Sequential Agglomerative Hierarchical Non-overlapping (SAHN) method implemented in the ISIDA/Cluster program (http://infochim.u-strasbg.fr) (Varnek et al., 2007). Briefly, each compound represents one cluster at the start. Then, the m compounds are merged iteratively into clusters using their pairwise Euclidean distances stored in a squared (m * m) symmetric distance matrix. The two closest objects (molecules or clusters) are iteratively identified and merged to form a new cluster, the distance matrix being updated with the re-computed distances separating the newly formed cluster and the others, according to the user-specified type of linkage (complete linkage in this study). The process is repeated until one cluster remains. The parent-child relationships between clusters result in a hierarchical data representation, or dendrogram. In particular, we used ISIDA/Cluster to obtain the heat map (see Results section) of the proximity matrix.
Dragon Descriptors-The following types of descriptors were generated using Dragon software (v.5.5, Talete SRL, Milan, Italy): 0D constitutional (atom and group counts), 1D functional groups, 1D atom-centered fragments, 2D topological descriptors, 2D walk and path counts, 2D autocorrelations, 2D connectivity indices, 2D information indices, 2D topological charge indices, 2D eigenvalue-based indices, 2D topological descriptors, 2D edge-adjacency indices, 2D Burden eigenvalues, 2D binary fingerprints, 2D frequency fingerprints, and molecular properties. The detailed discussion for these descriptors can be found elsewhere (Todeschini and Consonni, 2000).
SiRMS Descriptors-2D Simplex Representation of Molecular Structure (SiRMS) descriptors (Muratov et al., 2010) (representing numbers of unique tetratomic fragments with fixed composition and topological structure) were generated by the HiT QSAR software (Kuz'min et al., 2008). At the 2D level, the connectivity of atoms in a simplex, atom type, and bond nature (single, double, triple, or aromatic) have been considered. SiRMS descriptors account not only for the atom type, but also for other atomic characteristics that may impact biological activity of molecules, e.g., partial charge, lipophilicity, refraction, and an atom ability for being a donor/acceptor in hydrogen-bond formation (H-bond). For atom characteristics with continuous values (charge, lipophilicity, and refraction) the division of the entire value range into definite discrete groups has been carried out. The atoms have been divided into four groups corresponding to their (i) partial charge A≤−0.05<B≤0<C≤0.05<D, (ii) lipophilicity A≤−0.5<B≤0<C≤0.5<D, and (iii) refraction A≤1.5<B≤3<C≤8<D. For H-bond characteristic, the atoms have been divided into three groups: A (acceptor of hydrogen in H-bond), D (donor of hydrogen in H-bond), and I (indifferent atom). The usage of sundry variants of differentiation of simplex vertexes (atoms) represents the principal feature of the SiRMS approach (Kuz'min et al., 2007). Detailed description of HiT QSAR and SiRMS can be found elsewhere (Kuz'min et al., 2008; Muratov et al., 2010).
Random Forest-Random Forest models were constructed according to the original RF algorithm (Breiman, 2001) using the CF software version 2.12 (Polishchuk et al., 2009). RF is an ensemble of single decision trees. Outputs of all trees are aggregated to obtain one final prediction. Each tree is grown as follows: (i) a bootstrap sample is produced from the whole set of N compounds to form a training set for the current tree. Compounds that are not in the training set of the current tree are placed in the out-of-bag (OOB) set (size of ~ N/3); (ii) the best split by CART algorithm (Breiman et al., 1984) among the m randomly selected descriptors from the entire pool in each node is chosen; (iii) each tree is then grown to the largest possible extent; there is no pruning. The predicted classification values are defined by majority voting for one of the classes. Thus, each tree predicts values for only those compounds that are not included in the training set of that tree (for OOB set only). Since RF possesses its own reliable statistical characteristics (based on OOB set prediction) which could be used for validation and model selection, no cross-validation was performed (Breiman, 2001). Thus, the final model is chosen by the lowest error for prediction of the OOB set. The local (tree) applicability domain approach (Artemenko et al., 2011) was used for all RF models developed in this study.
where K o/w is the octanol/water partition coefficient and MW is the molecular weight of the chemical. Human skin permeability dataset (dataset D) was imported to DERMWIN as SMILES strings, and logKp was calculated and compared to the predictions of our models.
The DERMWIN module available as part of the EPI Suite software has been employed in several recent studies (Fong and Tong, 2012; Fong et al., 2014; Zhang et al., 2013) for evaluating skin permeability. For this reason, we decided to compare our models with that implemented in this software. DERMWIN uses a linear equation that relates the permeability coefficient with the chemical's octanol/water partition coefficient and molecular weight. However, statistical characteristics of this model suggested that this correlation was not adequate to predict human permeability. Although our consensus model 12 had a lower coverage of chemical space than DERMWIN (77% vs. 100%), it significantly outperformed DERMWIN in predictivity (Q 2 ext = 72% vs. 43%, respectively) (see Table 1). When the AD restriction was removed and the predictive accuracy of the models was evaluated using the same set of compounds (143 compounds), the comparison was in favor of our model (Q 2 ext = 71% vs. 66%, respectively) (see Table 3).
We have built statistically significant and externally predictive QSAR models of skin permeability that can be used to predict the permeability of untested compounds through the skin. Comparison of the developed consensus model with DERMWIN software showed that our model significantly outperformed DERMWIN in predictivity (Q 2 ext = 72% and 43%, respectively) but at the expense of some lost in coverage (77% vs. 100%); when applied to the same set of compounds as used for DERMWIN (ignoring the AD for our models) the performance of our model is still higher (Q 2 ext = 71% vs. 66%). The compiled datasets and all the models developed in this study have been made publicly available at the Chembench Web Portal (http://chembench.mml.unc.edu).
