
In this study, auditory stream segregation was assessed using a method described by Best 13 (2004).In this method, a 2-trial forcedchoice procedure was employed. The subjects were presented with 2 simultaneous tones of different frequencies (i.e., 500 Hz and 800 Hz) and were asked to judge the relative location of the pair by indicating whether the higher tone was to the left or right of the lower tone, on the right hand side of the subjects (Figure 1). The subjects' head was positioned in the center. The subjects were instructed to keep their heads in this position for the duration of the recording process (about 15 min). Testing took place using 3 reference locations on a horizontal plane: 0°, 30°, and 60°. For each reference location, 10 test locations were chosen on the basis of preliminary testing. In each trial, a pair of concurrent stimuli was presented. One stimulus corresponded to 1 of the reference locations, and the second stimulus was presented from 1 of the 10 test locations displaced in either azimuth. Prior to data acquisition, the subjects completed training blocks to ensure that they were able to detect the targets. Using a criterion of 75% correct in each test location, we measured the concurrent minimum audible angle. Stimuli were generated using MATLAB (The MathWorks, Natick, MA) and Sound Forge software (v.10 bySonic Foundry) with a sampling rate of 44.1 kHz. The stimuli were presented through headphones (TDH 39) via an audiometer, at 50 dB SL.
All the analyses were conducted using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS), version 16. Due to the relatively small group numbers in the study, the data did not meet normality assumptions in general. Therefore, nonparametric statistics (MannWhitney U) were used to compare the betweengroup differences. The Pearson correlation was employed to measure the degree of association between working memory capacity and the localization tests. The significance level adopted was 0.05 (5%), with confidence intervals of 95%.
