
The following objective approach was used to delineate tracts of interest in this study. Diffusion tensor image analysis was performed using FFMRIB Diffusion Toolbox (FDT) included in Functional MRI of the Brain Software Library (FSL) (Analysis Group, FMRIB, Oxford, UK) (Smith et al., 2004). Image artifacts due to eddy currents and bulk head motion were minimized including b-matrix rotation during motion correction (Smith et al., 2004). Non-brain tissue was removed (Smith et al., 2002). Scalar maps for mean tract FA, MD, AD and RD were generated. Because the component diffusion metrics may provide more specific information about the underling tissue properties they were included in our analysis (Budde et al., 2007; Song et al., 2003). For poststroke participants, high-resolution anatomical images were masked to null voxels in the region of their lesion to minimize lesion related structural changes from affecting the registration. Affine (12 degrees-of-freedom) registration was used to obtain transformation matrices first between the diffusion and anatomical space and then between the anatomical and standard space (Montreal NeurologicInstitute 152) (Jenkinson and Smith, 2001). Binarized white matter masks (Zhang et al., 2001) were realigned into diffusion space and used to constrain probabilistic tracking.
Fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity are known to reflect white matter integrity following stroke. Of the two metrics, in our data, MD had the lowest coefficient of variation across the 10 frontoparietal network tracts we quantified in both the poststroke and control groups, therefore it was used for the following three analyses: 1) to explain frontoparietal network variance principal components' analysis (PCA) was conducted on the correlations across the 10-frontoparietal tract mean MD values (Table 3). 2) To evaluate the relationship between haptic performance of the affected hand and network integrity we examined the relationship between ipsilesional and interhemispheric tract MD and HASTe scores using Pearson correlation coefficient. Bonferroni correction for 6 comparisons resulted in an adjusted alpha of p b 0.008 (Table 3). 3) To evaluate how well frontoparietal white matter integrity and other variables (age, brain volume and lesion volume) predicted HASTe scores of the affected and less affected hand we used forward stepwise multiple regression. Statistical analyses were performed in JMP® Pro 11.0.0. These data have been made publically available, to request access please contact the corresponding author.
