
The size distribution of exosome was measured using NanoSight LM10 coupled with a 405-nm laser (Malvern, Worcestershire, UK) and analysed by Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis 2.3 software (Malvern, Worcestershire, UK). MSC-EV preparation was diluted to 2 mg/mL with 0.22 mm filtered PBS and loaded using the NanoSight syringe pump and script control system set at 100 arbitrary units as recommended by NanoSight. Three 30-second videos were recorded at an ambient temperature of 20Á 218C with a 10-second delay between recordings. The minimal expected particle size, minimum track length and blur setting were set to the automatic default setting. Camera shutter speed was fixed at 30.00 ms, camera gain at 500, and camera sensitivity and detection threshold at 10. The size and number of particles of the exosome was calculated as the average of 3 replicate recordings.
Small RNA sequencing ST-EV was prepared from 200 mg MSC EV as described above using Trizol LS (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The extracted RNAs were quantitated using Quanti-TTM RiboGreen RNA Assay Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). One mg RNA each from unfractionated MSC EV preparation and ST-EVs was used for library construction. The library for high-throughput sequencing was constructed using TruSeq Small RNA Library Prep Kit (Cat. #RS-200-0024) and applied to an Illumina High Seq 2000 sequencing system (Illumina, USA) for 101-nt single-end sequencing. The reads obtained were trimmed of their ligation adaptors and reads shorter than 18 nts were discarded. The remaining reads were mapped against a collection of human rRNA sequences to filter out ribosomal RNA-like reads. The unmapped reads were subsequently mapped to Reference genome hg19 from the UCSC genome browser (www.genome.ucsc.edu/). The ENSEMBL gene annotation (GRCh37) was used to annotate the mapped reads based on its genomic location. For details of the analysis method, please refer to ''Supplementary Material and Method.'' Western blot hybridization Western blot hybridization was performed using standard protocols. Briefly, proteins were denatured, separated on 4Á12% polyacrylamide gels, electroblotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane and probed with a primary antibody followed by horseradish peroxidase-coupled secondary antibodies against the primary antibody. The primary antibodies used in this study were mouse anti-human CD9, CD81, ALIX, TSG101, CD59, b-ACTIN (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Dallas, TX) and EDA-containing FN1 (Abcam, Cambridge, MA). After incubating with the appropriate horseradish peroxidase-coupled secondary antibodies, the blot was then incubated with a chemiluminescent HRP substrate to detect bound primary antibody, and therefore the presence of the antigen.
