
Staphylococcus aureus was cultured overnight at 37°C in BHI media, after which the culture was diluted 1:10 with the same media. This diluted solution (100 μl) was spread onto plates and incubated at 37°C for 6 h, followed by 6 h of cooling at 20°C. For treatment with heat-killed pathogens, plates were incubated at 65°C for 6 h to kill the pathogen. Worms were transferred to prepared media (previously seeded with heatkilled or live pathogens) and the live worms were counted every 6 h until no living worms remained. Data are presented as mean survival days, which were calculated using the OASIS program (Yang et al., 2011).
C D E Fig. 4. Deficiency of UCP-4 results in resistance to S. aureus. Mitochondrial membrane potential (ψ m ) was measured by TMRE after wild type worms were fed heat-killed or live S. aureus (A and B, respectively). (C) and (D) represent TMRE stained ucp-4 mutants feeding on either heat-killed or live S. aureus, respectively. Scale bar = 100 μm. (E) Mean survival days of the wild type and the ucp-4 mutant after exposure to pathogen-seeded plates. Each experimental result was calculated by OASIS. The average of five experimental replicates was plotted. n > 300 worms per line in each experiment. WT, wild type; ucp-4, ucp-4 mutant; egg, animals were exposed to the pathogen at the egg stage; L1-2, at L1-2 stage; L3-4, at L3-4 stage; adult day 1, 5, and 10, at day 1, 5, and 10, respectively. Error bars = SD. *p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, based on a Student's t-test.
The ucp-4 mutant is resistant to the pathogen S. aureus Increased ROS can cause oxidative damage, especially in the mitochondria (Harman, 1956). However, an increase in ROS can be beneficial for innate immunity as a major defense system against pathogens (Arsenijevic et al., 2000; Basu Ball et al., 2011). Moreover, in C. elegans, increased ROS levels were shown to occur in the intestine at the site of pathogen infection (Chavez et al., 2007). Because UCP-4 is involved in regulating mitochondrial membrane potential (ψ m ), we investigated the function of UCP-4 in the response to pathogens. First, we compared ψ m using TMRE staining in wild types and in ucp-4 mutants upon exposure to either live (pathogenic) or heat-killed (non-pathogenic) Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus). As seen in Fig. 4, the ucp-4 mutant had high ψ m compared to that of the wild type without pathogen exposure (Figs. 4A and 4C, respectively). After pathogen exposure, there was no significant change in ψ m between live and heat-killed pathogen exposed ucp-4 mutants (Fig. 4D). In contrast, wild type worms showed an increase in ψ m upon exposure to live pathogens (Fig. 4B). This increased ψ m could be related to pathogen resistance; we therefore assayed worm survival. We placed animals on pathogen-seeded plates during each developmental stage, specifically egg, L1-2, L3-4, and adult day 1, 5, and 10. After the worms were transferred, surviving animals were counted each day until all were dead. We used the OASIS program to calculate mean survival days based on the raw data (Yang et al., 2011). As seen in Fig. 4E, the ucp-4 mutant survived longer than the wild type when exposed to the pathogen at the egg stage, L1-2, L3-4, and the young adult stage (day 1). However, exposure at the aged adult stages (days 5 and 10) produced different results. Specifically, the ucp-4 mutants were more susceptible to the pathogen compared to wild type at this stage.
