
Campylobacter jejuni and thermophilic Campylobacter spp. probes were used in combination with a FISH probe designed to detect feline neutrophil elastase mRNA. The feline neutrophil elastase probe 5 0 CAGAGGCTGCTGAACGACATCGTGATTCTC CAGCTCAAT3 0 was used concurrently with Campylobacter spp. probes (Thermophilic Campylobacter spp. 5 0 GCCCTAAGCGTCC TTCCA 3 0 and C. jejuni 5 0 AGCTAACCACACCTTATACCG 3 0 ). Slides were viewed under fluorescence using a DMRB microscope (Leica) equipped with a Retiga EXi camera (QImaging) and Volocity imaging software (PerkinElmer) and searched for the expression of feline neutrophil elastase and Campylobacter. Images were taken when a field of view (9400 objective) contained a neutrophil elastase expressor and one or both of the Campylobacter expressors. A record was made of any neutrophil elastase expressors that did not have a Campylobacter expressor in the same field, as well as the overall presence of C. jejuni and thermophilic Campylobacter. Image J software (http:// rsb.info.nih.gov/ij) was used after images had been captured to allow automated measurement of the distance between two points selected by the user-neutrophil and Campylobacter. The distance was measured in pixels on the digital images. The maximum field size used was 1850 pixels. The use of this software allowed multiple accurate measurements to be taken and compiled for statistical analysis.
Analysis was performed using statistical software; GraphPad Prism version 5.03. The presence of bacteria in the cats with neutrophilic and lymphoplasmacytic IBD was compared and tested for statistical significance using Chi-squared testing.
Bacteria were identified within the mucosa of cats with both neutrophilic and lymphoplasmacytic inflammation, suggesting mucosal disruption. There was no clear pattern to their localization (mucosa/submucosa/ lamina propria) within the tissue. The total numbers of bacteria did not differ between groups and for two Fig 2. Proximity of Campylobacter coli is closer to neutrophils as compared to C. jejuni. Data show pixel distance of neutrophils to Campylobacter as measured by ImageJ software. The maximal pixel distance per field is 1850 pixels; when a field of view did not contain both a Campylobacter and a neutrophil distance was recorded as 1850 pixels.bacterial species (C. jejuni and C. upsaliensis) there was also no difference in distribution between the two groups. A significant difference was found between the two groups regarding the presence of C. coli. This in itself is simply an observation and merely demonstrates an increased presence of C. coli in cats with neutrophilic inflammation. However, FISH neutrophil elastase probes demonstrated close proximity to neutrophils and confirmed the possible association with C. coli. No association between neutrophil location and other species of bacteria was demonstrated. This association supports the hypothesis that C. coli is particularly associated with a specific neutrophilic form of inflammation in the duodenal mucosa of cats with enteric disease compared with other microorganisms.
