
Expression Profiling Analysis-Lungs from fibrillin-1-deficient mice and littermate controls at postnatal day 1 (PD1) and postnatal day 5 (PD5) were harvested and quickly frozen. Lungs from two groups of mice (wild-type and fibrillin-1-deficient) at each time point were pooled in groups of two or three. Total RNA was extracted using TRIZOL reagent (Invitrogen). Expression profiling was done with Affymetrix A734 GeneChips (48 chips for this study), containing ϳ7000 full-length genes and ϳ1000 expressed sequence tags. Biotinylated cRNAs prepared from total RNAs were hybridized to U34A GeneChips in duplicate. Fluorescent signals were measured with a Hewlett Packard G2500A Gene Array Scanner. Data were analyzed with Affymetrix suite 5.0, corrected for saturation, and evaluated with GeneSpring 5.0 software. The primary gene expression data can be found on the World Wide Web at the NCBI GEO data base (GDS242).
Western Blot Analysis-Total cell lysates were extracted in M-Per buffer from Pierce. Protein concentrations were determined using the Bio-Rad Protein Assay. Aliquots of 30 -50 g of protein were boiled and then loaded onto Tris-HCl gels and transferred electrophoretically to nitrocellulose membranes. Membranes were incubated with the primary antibody for 1 h at room temperature. Detection was by the Pierce West DuraImmunohistochemistry-Tissue sections were deparaffinized and rehydrated in an ethanol series. Sections were blocked for nonspecific binding with 3% normal serum from chicken and incubated with the primary antibodies for 1 h at room temperature. For immunofluorescence, sections were then incubated with secondary antibodies at 1:200 for 30 min at room temperature (Molecular Probes). Sections were counterstained with 4Ј,6-diamidinio-2-phenylindole (DAPI) and mounted with Vectashield hard set mounting medium (Vector Laboratories). For immunohistochemistry, following incubation with the primary antibody overnight at 4°C, slides were washed with PBST, incubated with an appropriate biotinylated secondary antibody (Jackson ImmunoResearch), and developed by using ABC protocol. 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate, and 3,3Ј-diaminobenzidine detection reagents (Vector Laboratories). Antibodies were used at the following concentrations: NeuroD (1:100; Santa Cruz Biotechnology),Neuroendocrine Cell Quantitation-For details of the protocol, refer to Ref. 14. To characterize NE differentiation in fibrillin-deficient mice and wild-type littermates, we counted the total number of synaptophysin, CGRP, and PGP9.5 immunoreactive solitary PNECs and NEBs (neuroendocrine foci) in formaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung sections. This was correlated to the number of airways in the same sections (foci/ airway). To determine the size of NEBs in these same mice, pictures of each NEB were acquired using MetaMorph software (Universal Imaging/Molecular Devices, Downingtown, PA). The immunoreactive area was manually outlined and measured using the same software, and the size in m 2 for each individual NEB was tabulated. Statistical analysis was performed using the Mann-Whitney test (SigmaStat).
Data Analysis-Absolute analysis of Affymetrix image data were done using Affymetrix Microarray Suite 4.0. Values of intensity differences as well as ratios of each probe pair are used for determination of whether a transcript is called "present" or "absent." The differentially expressed gene lists for each time point were generated using GeneSpring software (Silicon Genetics, CA). In GeneSpring, those genes showing at least fourAffymetrix present calls were selected prior to further data processing. Welch's t test was performed to calculate the probabilities of significant gene expression changes. Since the probe sets were tested multiple times, we used a highly stringent p value cut-off (p Ͻ 0.001) to reduce the number of false positives to less than 1 in 1000.
