
The CAD system 11 was used to select two regions of interest (ROIs), the 'non-cleft side' and 'cleft side'. The CAD algorithm was implemented by a technical computing language (MATLAB R2010a, MathWorks Inc., Natick, MA, USA). The ROI, a square portion of 64×64 pixels, was extracted by dragging the mouse from a randomly selected single point to 64 pixels left and 64 pixels downward. The tooth structure, periodontal ligament, and lamina dura were excluded from each ROI. Next, the noise was removed by median filtering. Morphological skeletonization was then used to extract the medial axis of the trabecular bone, which was regarded as the prominent region that was brighter than the surrounding structures, and subsequently, the images were enlarged 64-fold. The 'strel' function was selected from the computing language to] is the size. In the matrix [2 3], the first element was the number of rows in the structuring element neighbourhood; the second element was the number of columns. Then, the most basic morphological operations, which were 'erosion' and 'dilation,' were performed. The 'erosion' function removed pixels on the object boundaries, while dilation added pixels to the boundaries of objects in an image. The number of pixels added or removed from the objects in an image depends on the size and the shape of the structuring element used to process the image. Finally, the pixel area calculation was used to estimate the area of the trabecular bone in the binary image, that is, the digital image that had only two possible values for each pixel, namely 0 and 1 (Figs. 1 and 2). The pixel area of the "non-cleft side" and "cleft side" from group 0 to group 4 were calculated and compared. The measurements were made five times, once a week, on each side by an oral radiologist. Five positions were randomly selected at the "non-cleft side" and "cleft side" on the same image. All of the pixel areas of the image were then calculated. Statistical tests were performed using SPSS 10.1 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Descriptive statistics were applied. The Shapiro-Wilk test was used to evaluate a normally distributed pixel area. Wilcoxon signed ranks test was used when the data did not show normal distribution and the paired samples t test was used when the data showed normal distribution. The study design was approved by the Khon Kaen University Ethics Committee for Human Research.
Alveolar bone grafting in patients with cleft lip and palate is now a common practice owing to several advantages. It can help to prevent the collapse and constriction of the dental arch, to close the oronasal fistula, and to allow eruption of teeth into the cleft. The bone grafting is fully revascularized between 14 and 21 days, and new bone is formed in approximately six weeks and has matured after six months. 12 It is generally thought that osseous healing of transplants is completed six months after the operation. Nightingale et al compared three methods of radiographic assessment, the Bergland, Kindelan, and Chelsea scales, which produced great reproducibility rather than validity. 9 Over-and under-estimation of the success rate of the alveolar bone grafting has also been reported in some cases. 13 The CAD system, therefore, has been developed to determine the bone quantity in the alveolar cleft after bone grafting. This CAD system uses mathematical morphology and calculates the area on the binary images that can be produced by MathWorks. Our results showed that the pixel areas from the binary images in the "cleft side" were significantly smaller than those on the "non-cleft side" in group 0 (before bone grafting) and group 1 (one month after bone grafting). This means that the trabecular bone increased but was still less than the normal side. In addition, there was no significant difference found in group 2 (2-4 months after bone grafting) and group 3 (5-7 months after bone grafting), which means the trabecular bone gradually increased in the 2-4 months and was similar to the normal bone within 5-7 months. It should be noted that the new bone formation with osteoid deposition indicated remodeling of 25-55% at 3 months postoperatively and the grafted bone had a denser structure than the control ─ 228 ─ Evaluation of alveolar bone grafting in unilateral cleft lip and palate patients using a computer-aided diagnosis systemspecimen from the iliac crest. 14 The histomophometric analysis has shown that major bone remodeling can already be seen after 4-5 months. 15 However, the pixel area presented a significant difference again in group 4 (8 or more months after bone grafting), which means the quantity of bone had decreased after eight months. Honma et al also reported that the grafted bone volumes one year after alveolar bone grafting were significantly reduced compared with 3 months after grafting using CT. 16 Therefore, longterm follow-up is suggested to evaluate the trabecular bone at the bone grafting area in comparison to the side with normal bone. Dental radiographs may be used with the CAD system to evaluate the bone grafting area more easily than CT images and show cost-effectiveness.
The CAD system was developed based on mathematical morphology using MathWorks. The ROI can be controlled by using the same size and can be changed into binary images for calculating the pixel area that corresponds to the total number of pixels in the image. The CAD system could be useful for evaluating grafting failure, which would permit re-grafting before the eruption of the teeth and improve the prognosis of cleft lip and palate patients. Trindade et al 8 and Jia et al 17 showed 86% and 88% success rates, respectively, for the long term outcome of alveolar bone grafting in a UCLP group using the Bergland scale. However, their studies did not evaluate the success rate. A further prospective study would be required using this CAD system to support surgeons to determine the appropriate period for re-grafting or to explain the success of bone grafting compared with normal bone on the same image. The quantity of the pixel area might be useful for further and better treatment planning for artificial eruption in the cleft area.
