
A paper from Jamaica explains how the 2009 versions of the EPP and Spectrum tools have been applied in Jamaica, together with the country-specific data and assumptions, to assess the course of the epidemic and to set programme targets. 10 Analytical papers based on new estimates explore various topics. A paper on the prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) quantifies the effect of epidemic trends and PMTCT programmes on the annual number of new child infections. 11 In addition, the paper explores which efforts are needed to virtually eliminate new child infections through mother-to-child transmission by 2015. An updated analysis of the contribution of HIV to under-five mortality shows a decrease in recent years. 12 The effect of changing global guidelines of the starting criteria for the initiation of ART on the number of people estimated to be eligible for ART is assessed. 13 A second paper, focused on ART, estimates the impact of ART on mortality and estimates how many life-years have been gained through ARTamong adults. 14 A final analytical paper uses recent biological and behavioural surveillance data from young people aged 15e24 years in the most affected countries to assess trends in HIV prevalence and sexual behaviour. The analysis shows that, among the countries with sufficient data for the analysis, in 10 countries there is evidence of significant declines in HIV prevalence of at least 25% since 2000, while an additional six countries have non-significant declining trends, and another five do not show declining trends. 15
Looking towards the future, we expect several new developments in estimation tools. First, it is desirable that EPP andSpectrum be integrated, thereby allowing streamlining of the handling of demographic and ART data, and in doing so avoiding errors. Second, a more flexible epidemic model should be included in EPP to improve on the current phi-shift feature, building on the proposals by Hogan 16 and Bao. 17 Many countries now have seen a decline in prevalence and these would be expected to show an increase in prevalence in future years as a result of either increased survival due to ART of a large proportion of all people living with HIV or of increased transmission, or both. Third, with ART programmes expanding and maturing, improvements in modelling epidemics should be expected from the tracking of HIV-infected individuals by their CD4 level. Fourth, for mother-to-child transmission, the new WHO guidelines should be incorporated in Spectrum.
While EPP and Spectrum work well for countries where survey-derived data constitute the bulk of the surveillance data, they are not well adapted for countries that rely mostly on HIV and AIDS case reporting for HIV surveillance. Many European countries rely on such data and a new initiative coordinated by the European Centre for Disease Control hopes to develop estimation tools appropriate in such settings.
