
We used single turnover kinetics experiments under saturating enzyme conditions ([E] > [S] >> K d ) to obtain a rate constant (k max ) that is not influenced by product release or product inhibition. This is important because TDG exhibits very slow product release and strong product inhibition, which dominates k cat values determined using steady-state kinetics (19,32,33). Experiments were collected at room temperature (23 C) in HEMN.1 buffer (0.02 M HEPES, 0.2 mM EDTA, 2.5 mM MgCl 2 , 0.1 M NaCl). Experiments were initiated by adding concentrated TDG to buffered substrate, followed by rapid mixing. At various time points, aliquots were removed, quenched with 50% (v:v) 0.3 M NaOH and 0.03 M EDTA, and heated at 85 C for 15 min to cleave the DNA backbone at enzyme-produced abasic sites. The fraction product was determined by HPLC (21,24). The data were fitted to Equation (1) using nonlinear regression with Grafit 6 (34):
We also determined the maximal rate of product formation using kinetics experiments as described above, but with saturating substrate conditions ([S] >> K d , and [S] >> [E]) (22,33). The data were fitted to Equation (2) using nonlinear regression with Grafit 6:
The equilibrium dissociation constants for TDG binding to TR-labeled DNA were determined by fitting the fluorescence anisotropy data to appropriate models usingDynaFit 4 (38,39). The models and DynaFit scripts used for data fitting are given in the Supplementary Data. The fitted parameters included dissociation constants for one or two binding sites on the DNA, and anisotropy values for free DNA (r D ) and for 1:1 and 2:1 complexes with TDG (r ED and r EED ). In many cases, the data clearly indicate two nonequivalent binding sites. Model discrimination was also informed by the probability value of the Fisher's F-statistic, obtained from data fitting, where P < 0.05 is considered significant. The reported parameters are derived from global fitting of at least two independent binding experiments. We determined the equilibrium dissociation constant for TDG binding to unlabeled DNA using equilibrium competition anisotropy experiments, where TDG binding to TR-labeled 16U F 11 was monitored in the presence of varying concentrations of unlabeled DNA.DynaFit was used for global fitting of the data to a model involving one or two TDG binding sites for the unlabeled DNA and two binding sites for TR-labeled 16U F 11. A benefit of using DynaFit for the data presented here is that data fitting does not require an analytical equation, which could involve assumptions that are not compatible with experimental restraints. Indeed, the standard model for two nonequivalent binding sites assumes the species being monitored (DNA) is present at much lower concentration than the dissociation constant. This is not feasible for monitoring TDG binding to 16U F 11, because the minimal DNA concentration needed for sufficient sensitivity in the anisotropy experiment (0.5 nM) approximates the dissociation constant (K d1 = 0.6 nM, see below).
