
Since great accuracy and speed is not necessary in the y-axis, this direction is manually controlled by a Newport NSC200, which drives an open-loop Newport CMA-25PP motor with a bi-directional repeatability of 4 µm and velocity of 0.4 mm/s. However, in the x-and zaxes, Newport's computer guided ESP301 motion controller in combination with Newport's LTA-HS closed loop servomotors (with a typical bi-directional repeatability of 0.6 µm and velocity of 5 mm/s) are used to position the specimen. A LabVIEW program coordinates image acquisition and motor positioning simultaneously. The image acquisition routine consists of grabbing a column of image data from the camera and moving the specimen the width of that column and then collecting another column. These columns are stitched together to form a composite image across the full width of the specimen. Figure 2(a) shows the ROI (i.e., the confocal paramater) in an image of the mouse cochlea. The Rayleigh range x R was calculated [1] with the 5X Plan Apo microscopic objective to approximately 34 µm and thus the confocal parameter b is 68 µm. To the left and the right of the ROI, the image appears out-of-focus due to greater beam thickness and light scattering. In addition, a blur is present in the lower left of the image, which is due to the presence of a high density structure (i.e. bone) in the cochlea that lies between the optical section and collecting lens of the Olympus microscope. However, Fig. 2(b) shows that stitching of multiple ROIs across the width of the specimen, results in improved focus of specimen across its width. Higher magnification of these stitched image columns Fig. 2(c)] reveals some stitching artifacts due to image column misalignments.In order to produce a stitched image without columns artifacts like shown in Fig. 2(c), it is crucial to find a relationship between the moved distance m (µm) and the strip width w ROI (pixel). Since the magnification M of the microscope is the factor between its image and the original, it is also the major parameter in the relationship between m and w ROI . But because m is defined in µm and w ROI in pixels, the correction factor p, defined as the pixel size of the camera, is also included in Eq. (1).
The resolution of the encoder s i was determined by moving the motor 1 mm and counting the encoder signals. One encoder impulse for the Newport LTA-HS is equivalent to s i = 0.14 µm which is important for the calculation of the relationship i. For example, the Retiga 2000R at 5x magnification p/M = 1.48 µm/pixel and when w ROI = 9 lines, an output signal has to be generated after every 94 input ticks of the encoder. This signal goes directly over the digital output via the SCB-68 connector block into the optic-coupled input of the camera where it initiates an exposure of the chip. The pictures are picked up on demand by a loop in the controlling LabVIEW program. The whole concept for a hardware triggered system is summarized in Fig. 3.With this system, acquisition is triggered by a hardware signal generated by the motor position. That means that there is a constant time gap between the arrival of the specimen at the desired position and the exposure of the camera, which makes the system real-time capable. This prevents artifacts from being produced by asynchronies between the software acquisition loop and the hardware motor position during the scan. One significant improvement of this system was that the produced composite images were almost completely free from the previous stitching artifacts using the start/stop procedure. Only very rarely did an artifact line appear due to a slight movement of the specimen in-between two strips. These artifacts were rare and minimal as long as the slice width was small (roughly under 10 lines).
