
Differences in age between healthy controls and patients were examined using twotailed Student's t test, and the 2 test was used to examine differences in gender distribution. For the case-control association study, Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) testing of the SNPs was done using SNPAlyze V7.0 Pro (Dynacom, Chiba, Japan). The HWE tests were carried out for all loci in patients and controls. Differences in genotypic and allelic frequencies were evaluated based on the case-control design using 2 analysis. Linkage disequilibrium (LD), denoted as D ', was calculated from the haplotype frequency using the expectation-maximization algorithm. The LD block was also identified using SNPAlyse software when D ' was greater than 0.75. Case-control haplotype analysis was also performed using SNPAlyse software. Permutation analysis was used to determine the empirical significance and to calculate the p values based on 10,000 replications. The global p values represent the overall significance using the 2 test when the observed versus expected frequencies of all haplotypes are considered together. Individual haplotypes were tested for association by grouping all other haplotypes together and applying the 2 test with 1 d.f. All p values reported are two-tailed. Statistical significance was defined at p ! 0.05.
To analyze interactions between SNPs in PGBD1 and APOE genotypes, logistic regression analysis was performed using HealthSketch version 2.5 (Dynacom). The probability (P c ) of an individual being a case rather than a control is assumed to be affected by a set of SNPs, according to the logistic model. For example, logit(P) = b 0 + b 1 x 1 + b 2 x 2 for a single SNP. Here, we use a coding scheme x 1 = -1, 0, 1 and x 2 = -0.5, 0.5, -0.5 for genotypes homozygous for major alleles, heterozygous, and homozygous for minor alleles (for APOE , 4 was assumed to be the minor allele, and 2 and 3 were assumed to be major alleles simultaneously), respectively, to represent an additive effect with x 1 and a dominant/recessive effect with x 2 . The weights were estimated with the maximum likelihood method and tested by comparison with the null hypothesis logit(P c ) = b 0 (constant). We performed a stepwise forward selection procedure with two purposes: the first was to test the relationships among multiple SNPs in PGBD1 and the APOE genotype, and the second was to confirm the interaction among the SNPs if a significant association with p ! 0.05 was shown with individual logistic models. Multiple regression analyses were performed to estimate the relationship among the age of onset, APOE status, and the 4 SNPs using SPSS software ver. 17.0 for Windows (IBM, Chicago, Ill., USA).
