
Gene Re-Annotation in the Neisseriaceae Family [Vol. 20, annotation. For example, Warren et al. 25 uncovered 38 895 intergenic open reading frames (ORFs), readily identified as putative genes by similarity to currently annotated genes, from 1297 prokaryotic replicons based on across-genome alignment. New genes could be confirmed by the similarity alignment or by transcription or proteome analyses. In this work, we first used the ZCURVE 26 program, which is freely available at http://tubic.tju.edu.cn/Zcurve_B/, to pick out all candidate genes that did not have same 5 0 terminals with all genes in the original annotation. The candidate may overlap one annotated gene with their sequences but they did not correspond to the same reading frame. Then those candidate new genes would be filtered by blast 27 against the NCBI nr database. If one candidate met the following three conditions, it would be regarded as genuine genes: (i) it had the significant similarity (E-value , 10 220 , Coverage . 60% and Identity . 50%) with annotated genes in bacteria beyond the same genus in the database, and it had the similar length with the counterpart (difference , 20%); (ii) it had counterpart in the cluster of orthologous groups (COG) database, i.e. it could be assigned within an existed COG cluster; (iii) it did not overlap annotated genes with any bases or it had a smaller E-value and a higher identity score against functional genes in the other genomes in the case of overlapping. This process has been standardized in this work. For each of the 10 strains, all parameters in the whole process were fixed.
During the process of genome re-annotation for the 10 Neisseriaceae strains, we found an interesting phenomenon. In a specific genome, two adjacent ORFs, which are predicted as genes by the ZCURVE program, have the same function with known genes in the other species. The total length of the two ORFs just corresponds to that of the known counterparts or just a little different from them. Based on similarity scores, both of the two ORFs should be predicted as genes with the corresponding function. However, either of them is much shorter than the functional counterpart and could not constitute a homologue in the sense of length information. Perrodou et al. 43 stated that unrecognized frameshifts, in-frame stop codons and sequencing errors often led to interrupted coding sequences. Very recently, Sharma et al. 44 performed a pilot study on bacterial genes with disrupted ORFs. Their results indicated that many disrupted genes likely utilized the nonstandard decoding mechanisms: programmed ribosomal frameshifting and programmed transcriptional realignment. Given that our recognized adjacent ORFs have identical functions, they should originate from the disruption of a longer gene by a frameshift or an in-frame stop codon and rarely by the sequencing error. Numbers of disrupted ORFs are listed in Table 3 and details of them are illustrated in Supplementary Table S4. Totally, 111 disrupted ORFs (or partial genes) were identified in six strains of the genus Neisseria and two in L. hongkongensis.According to Sharma et al., 44 some of the disrupted ORFs still encode proteins. Consistent with this, both of the disrupted ORFs LHK_A0007 (newly predicted) and LHK_02777 (originally annotated) are found to be transcribed in L. hongkongensis cells by the PCR experiment. Further wet experiment on functions of the other disrupted ORFs would be interesting.
When annotating this genome, only one ab initio gene finder was used. 42 Usually, two or more ab initio programmes are used in annotating the other bacterial genomes. Based on the very abnormal gene density of the strain, we suppose that there may still be non-coding ORFs, besides the 56 ones excluded by us. Besides the annotation method and sequencing time, some other factors also cause the different extent of errors. For example, genes in high G þ C bacterial genomes are shown to be difficultly predicted with high accuracy and this is caused by the fact that many long ORFs appear in this type of genomes. 32 In addition, the genome could be difficultly predicted accurately if there are only distantly related species in the public databases. 33 We should note that there still probably are noncoding ORFs and missed genes after the present updated annotation in the 10 Neisseriaceae strains. To assure reliable results, we picked up only those sequences with very higher similarities when identifying missed genes and we used the method with lower specificity when excluding non-coding ORFs. In addition, some thoroughly new genes, which have not significant similarities with any known genes, may be found by combing ab initio programme and wet experimental validation. However, the 106 newly found genes are those having similar counterparts based on latest databases. Also note that different detailed methods may be used to check the annotations of the other bacterial genomes, although the present systematic method has shown to be effective and reliable. For example, the recently developed ab initio gene finder Prodigal, 32 which has lower false positives could replace or jointly used with ZCURVE 1.0. Here, we used only the latter because the use of both of them generates basically consistent results (data not shown). The RPGM program, 39 which is also based on the graphical representation of the DNA sequence, could be chosen as an alternative to eliminate non-coding ORFs.
