
Total RNA was extracted using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The RNAs were then reverse-transcribed using a Superscript II kit (Invitrogen) with the oligo(dT)15 primer according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The PCR was performed with a GoTaq® Green Master Mix PCR kit (Promega) in 20 μL of total reaction mixture containing 1 μL of the RT-reaction mixture and 0.5 μL of each primer (forward and reverse, 15 μM). The PCR primers sets and the thermocycling parameters used are listed in Table 1. The PCR samples were analyzed electrophoretically on a 1.2% agarose gel containing 0.2 mg/mL ethidium bromide at 90 V for 1 h. The bands were visualized under UV light. GAPDH transcripts served as internal controls. mRNA band density was quantified using SigmaGel software (Jandel Scientific, San Rafael, CA, USA).
Western blotting was used to analyze IL-4 and IL-13 protein expression. The treated cells were lysed in lysis buffer containing 0.1 M EDTA, 0.1 mM NaCl, 0.1% Triton X-100, and protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich). The protein content of the whole cell lysate was measured with a Bio-Rad Protein Assay kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA). Whole cell lysates were separated by 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and electroblotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes (GE Healthcare, Buckinghamshire, UK). After blocking, the membranes were incubated first with mouse anti-ratIL-4 or mouse anti-rat IL-13 antibody (1:500) and then with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG secondary antibody. The immunoreactive proteins were visualized using the ECL Western Blot Detection System (GE Healthcare) and the protein band densities were quantified using SigmaGel software.
Data are expressed as means ± standard deviation, and are the average values of three to five values per experiment. Analyses were performed using SPSS software version 10.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). The experiments were repeated at least twice to confirm the results. Analysis of variance was conducted, and Duncan's multiple-range tests were used to determine significant differences between groups. The level of statistical significance was set to P < 0.05.
We also investigated the effect of SCWE or DSCWE treatment on IgE-antigen complex-induced IL-4, IL-13, and TNF-α protein production by Western blot analysis (IL-4 and IL-13) and ELISA (TNF-α). The Western blot results were analyzed using SigmaGel software (Figs. 4B, 4C, 5B and 5C). The data showed that stimulating with the IgE-antigen complex increased IL-4, IL-13, and TNF-α protein levels in RBL-2H3 cells, and that treatment with 250, 500, and 1,000 μg/mL SCWE reduced IL-4 and IL-13 protein levels (Fig. 4A-C). DSCWE at 500 and 1,000 μg/mL also reduced IL-4 and IL-13 protein levels Fig. 5A-C). The inhibitory effect of SCWE was slightly more potent than that of DSCWE (Figs. 4A-5C). Moreover, SCWE or DSCWE treatment (100, 250, 500, and 1,000 μg/mL) led to a reduction in TNF-α protein levels, compared with that of untreated IgEantigen complex-stimulated RBL-2H3 cells (Fig. 6A and 6B).
