
Genomic DNA of the strain KNU-3 was extracted using the DNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) following the manufacturer's instructions. The ITS regions, including the 5.8S, were amplified with the primers ITS1 and ITS4 [16]. The amplified PCR product (619 bp) was purified using a QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) following the manufacturer's recommendations. The PCR product was sequenced with an ABI Prism 3730 DNA Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). The sequence was compared with reference ITS1~ITS4 rDNA sequences in GenBank using BLAST analysis (http:// www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gob/blast). The nucleotide sequence reported here has been deposited at NCBI-GenBank (accession No. KJ921605). The sequences of closely related strains were aligned using MultAlin program. Phylogenetic analysis was carried out by the neighbor-joining method using MEGA software [17] with the Kimura 2-parameter model. The robustness of the tree was evaluated by 1,000 bootstrap replications.
Statistical analysis. Data were subjected to an analysis of variance (ANOVA) and means were compared using Tukey's test at p < 0.05. Statistical analyses were performed using SigmaPlot (Systat Software Inc., San Jose, CA, USA).
The ITS sequence of the P. menonorum KNU-3 isolate was 100% identical to the culture collection NRRL: 50410 of P. menonorum S. W. Peterson sp. nov (GenBank accession No. HQ646591). The phylogenetic analysis of KNU-3 was carried out by distance tree construction. The ITS1 sequence of KNU-3 was aligned with sequences of available P. menonorum strains and its nearest species through the BLAST sequence using MultAlin program, and a neighbor-joining tree was constructed from the aligned sequences. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolate was grouped with a reference isolate of P. menonorum with 99% bootstrap value support (Fig. 2), and was distinct from other Penicillium spp., which were grouped in distinct clades. These results indicate that the isolate KNU-3 is closely related to P. menonorum. Based on morphological properties, sequence homology, and phylogenetic analysis, the isolate KNU-3 was thus identified as P. menonorum. PGP traits. P. menonorum KNU-3 was able to produce siderophores in the plate-based assay as evidenced by the formation of a yellow zone on the CAS agar medium plate Supplementary Fig. 1A). While the fungal isolate produced a significant amount of IAA (9.7 mg/L), no ACC deaminase activity was detected. As shown in Table 1, P-solubilization increased from day 2 to day 6 with a value ranging from 198 to 408 mg/L Supplementary Fig. 1B). The pH of the medium decreased up to 6 days ranging from 6.2 to 5.1 with an increase of soluble P. After 5 days of incubation, soluble P decreased slowly with a concomitant slight pH increase of the medium (Table 1).
Numerous microfungi were isolated in the present study to investigate the fungal community in Jeongseon, Gangwondo, Korea. Among these isolates, one Penicillium sp. showed definitive similarity matches with P. menonorum. In order to confirm the morphological results, molecular identification of the isolate was carried out based on ITS sequence analysis. The ITS sequence of the isolate was compared to the GenBank database sequences by using the NCBI-BLAST search program, and it was found to be identical to the type strain NRRL: 50410 of P. menonorum S.W. Peterson sp. nov. In addition, the phylogenetic tree revealed that the isolate was grouped in a distinct clade together with P. menonorum with bootstrap support value of 100% (Fig. 2). Morphological and molecular characteristics of the isolate were in agreement with the description by Peterson et al. [15]. P. menonorum S.W. Peterson sp. nov. is a phenotypically and genotypically broadly circumscribed new species that was first isolated from garden soil in southern California by Peterson et al. [15], and P. menonorum isolation from Panax ginseng has been reported in China [28]. Nevertheless, to our knowledge, this study presents the first record of P. menonorum in Korea. Many microbial-based agricultural techniques have been developed to exploit potential mechanisms for the enhancement of crop production in different soils. Although members of the genus Penicillium are common opportunistic pathogens in the soil environment, some Penicillium strains associated with the different plant rhizospheres are able to solubilize inorganic insoluble P salts and promote plant growth in the soil. Thus, the growth-promoting capacity of P. menonorum KNU-3 was evaluated by assaying for IAA and siderophore production, ACC deaminase activity, and P solubilization. IAA secreted by microorganisms promotes root growth through a direct stimulatory effect on plant cell elongation or cell division [29]. In the present study, P. menonorum KNU-3 was positive for both IAA and siderophore production. Other researchers have made similar observations for the IAA production by Penicillium sp. [11]. Siderophores are important metabolites released by the PGP microorganisms that directly alleviate irondeficiency by increasing the supply of iron to the plant and indirectly depriving fungal pathogens of iron [30, 31]. Kang et al. [32] reported that siderophores are also able to chelate Mg 2+ , Ca 2+ , and Al 3+ from a soil solution. In this study, the isolate showed both IAA production and the presence of siderophores, which may provide an explanation for its PGP activity. Several studies have demonstrated that production of siderophores, other secondary metabolites, and lytic enzymes by Penicillium spp. were most effective in promoting plant growth and controlling plant root pathogens.
