
The raw microarray data were further analyzed using Agilent GeneSpring GX software Version 11.0. Processed data were subsequently filtered for significant detection (Student's t-test screening, P,0.05) and differential expression versus COPD model rats (fold change, |log ratio| .1).
The identification results were obtained from Mascot. The criteria used for protein quantitation were as follows: two unique peptide hits, two quantitative peptides, and disabling of outlier removal. The reporter ion ratio for each identified peptide was determined by Mascot. The loess and global median normalization were used to process the proteomics data. Data were log 2 transformed and analyzed on both peptide and protein level. Statistical significance of observed fold-change ratios was determined by one sample t-test. P-values ,0.05 were considered statistically significant for proteins. Fold change higher than 1.0 is for upregulation or lower than 1.0 is for downregulation.
The molecular function of transcripts and proteins was explored by BiNGO, a Cytoscape v3.1.1 plugin. 15 Pathway enrichment analysis of transcripts and proteins was performed using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database. We considered regulated pathways only as statistically significant, if the P-value was #0.05. We applied Metscape to analyze the integrated pathway of gene, protein, and metabolomics data. 16 We also applied ClueGO, a Cytoscape plugin, to explore the molecular function of the proteins. 17 In the MetaboAnalyst 3.0, the pathway analysis module combines the results from powerful pathway enrichment analysis with the pathway topology analysis to help us identify the most relevant pathways involved in the conditions under this study. 18 Using STRING 10, we generated interaction networks based on the overlapping proteins between the targets of BJF and proteomic measurements of BJF-treated rats. 19
Using the Metscape software, we investigated the latent relationships of the metabolite, gene, and protein measurements by constructing the correlation network diagram. As shown in Figure 4A and B, according to the transcriptomics and metabolomics data of COPD rats and BJF-treated rats, we constructed two gene-metabolite networks, which were mainly related to lipid metabolism and purine metabolism. Interestingly, a number of genes and most of the metabolites were involved in lipid metabolism. Subsequently, we constructed two protein-metabolite networks based on the metabolomics and proteomics data of COPD rats and BJFtreated rats. As shown in Figure 4C and D, we observed that the protein-metabolite networks could be divided into two primary groups: lipid metabolism and purine metabolism, and more than half of proteins and almost all of metabolites were involved in lipid metabolism.
