
size and zeta potential experiment A Multisizer 4 Coulter counter (Beckman Coulter Inc., Miami, FL, USA) and ZetaSizer Nano ZS (Malvern Instruments, Malvern, UK) were employed to measure the size and the zeta potential, respectively. Samples were diluted 50× with distilled water at 25°C. The results are presented as the average of five measurements.
Atomic force microscopy (AFM) images of the liposome and the liposome-PC complex were collected in the Scan Asyst ® mode on a Multimode (Bruker Corporation, Santa Barbara, CA, USA) microscope using single-beam silicon cantilever probes (Bruker MLCT at a resonance frequency of 10 kHz, a nominal tip curvature radius of 10 nm, and a force constant of 0.04 N/m). All measurements were subjected to first-order flattening. Particle size was calculated using the Nanoscope 6.13R1 software (Digital Instruments, NY, USA). Mean values from 40 random particles in three independent experiments are reported. Quantitative AFM force mapping analysis was performed to evaluate the relative elasticity of particles in order to obtain a complete elastic property map of heterogeneous samples. We prepared samples by coating the mica surface sample holder with 0.1% (3-Aminopropyl) triethoxysilane (APTES) to stabilize the NPs (to prevent their collapse on the mica surface), and then performed the AFM analysis. Young's modulus was calculated for six different samples corresponding to 512×512 force-separation curves obtained over a 10×10 μm area. Young's modulus was calculated using the following equation, as reported elsewhere:
Proteins adsorbed on the liposomes were separated by onedimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and stained by Coomassie Brilliant Blue (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). Plasma proteins on the surface of liposomes were quantified by densitometric analysis with the ImageJ software Version 1.45 (imagej.en.softonic.com/). The most abundant protein bands were cut and treated as previously described. 29,30 Briefly, each band was de-stained by washing in acetonitrile and 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate. Then, cysteine residues of the proteins were reduced in 10 mM dithiothreitol for 1 hour at 57°C, and alkylated with 55 mM iodoacetamide for 45 minutes at room temperature in the dark. Proteins were in situ digested using Porcine Trypsin Sequencing Grade (Promega Corporation, Fitchburg, WI, USA) overnight at 37°C at an enzyme/substrate ratio of 1:50. The next day, the supernatant was collected and larger peptides were extracted by adding acetonitrile to the bands. Enzyme activity was stopped by adding 0.5% trifluoroacetic acid. Peptides were recovered from the supernatant after centrifugation at 18,000× g for 10 minutes. The resulting peptides were extracted and identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.
We used a NanoAcquity UPLC system (Waters Corporation, Milford, MA, USA) coupled inline with a Synapt HDMS (G1) mass spectrometer with an electrospray source to analyze proteins. The liquid chromatography system consisted of a 180 μm ×20 mm Symmetry C18 (5 μm particle) trapping column, and a 75 μm ×250 mm BEH130 C18 (1.7 μm particle) analytical column. The peptide mixture was resolved as previously described. 31 The ProteinLynx Global Server (PLGS v2.4; Waters Corporation) was used to identify proteins. The Uniprot 2013_03 ("reviewed") mouse proteome (16,614 entries) served as the target database. Only proteins with a minimum of two peptides, 95% confidence interval, precursor ion mass error tolerance #5 ppm, and fragmention mass tolerance #15 ppm were considered. The following criteria were used in the database search strategy: one trypsin missed cleavage was also allowed, together with oxidation of methionines as variable modification. The only allowed fixed modification was, instead, the carbamidomethylation of cysteines. Quantitative values were normalized using 100 fmol/sample of yeast alcohol dehydrogenase as internal standard and analyzed with the Identity E algorithm.
To evaluate cellular uptake of liposomes by flow cyto metry, 200,000 cells/well were seeded in a twelve-well tissue culture plate. After 24 hours of cell culture expansion, cells were incubated in serum-free conditions with 0.15 mM of rhodamine-labeled bare liposomes and rhodamine-labeled liposome-PC complexes. Incubation occurred for 3 hours at 37°C. After treatment, the cells were washed with phosphate buffered saline, harvested using trypsin, and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1,500 rpm. A solution of trypan blue (0.01%) was added to the tubes before acquisition to quench the surface fluorescence. 33 The analysis was performed using a Becton Dickinson LSR II instrument equipped with Diva software. Each sample was evaluated with 10,000 events. Untreated cells were used as controls. Results are presented as averages of three independent experiments.
We shed light on the impact of the PC first on particleparticle and then on particle-cell interactions. Our observations suggest that to predict the fate of a NP in vivo, one must not only know the PC composition and eventually the orientation of proteins, but should also carefully consider the physical changes (size, surface, and charge) that the NP undergoes when surrounded by a PC and the consequent impact on particle-particle interactions. This studyshows that the efficacy of liposomal formulations must be reinterpreted, as it is strongly affected by PC formation in plasma. Classical characterization of nanodelivery systems should include studies on PC formation and be combined with experiments that simulate the tendency of NPs to aggregate after exposure to plasma proteins. We believe that such studies will hopefully help us interpret and predict in vivo data and to design more effective therapeutic carriers. Using offline Nanoscope software, the liposome was magnified further, and then a section analysis was performed. Along the whole particle profile, there are regions at different heights (differences =5 nm). Abbreviations: aFM, atomic force microscopy; Pc, protein corona.
