
Extreme limiting dilution analysis (ELDA) has carried out to evaluate self-renewal capacity as previously explained by Hu and Smyth (20). Briefly, single cell suspension has obtained from parent and spheroid cells have plated at concentration of 1000, 100, 10 cells and 1 cell per well in 0.2 ml of CSC medium in 96-well ultra-low attachment (Getbiofil, UK) and cultured for 7 days in a humidified incubator at 37°C and 5% CO 2 . The number of wells containing of colonospheres has counted after 7 days. The frequency of sphere forming cells in a particular cell type has determined using ELDA web tool at http://bioinf.wehi.edu.au/software/elda.
Data have presented as means ± standard error of the mean (SEM). Statistical analysis has performed using Graph- Pad Prism 3.0 (GraphPad Software Inc, USA). The unpaired t-test has used to analyze the median value of expression between the groups. Statistical significance has determined at P < 0.05. All tests have performed in triplicate.
In this study, we have found that human HT-29 colonic adenocarcinoma cells could form spheroid colonies in a serum-free medium containing. To investigate the capability of colon spheres differentiation, these cells have cultivated in 10% FBS medium rather than EGF and FGF-2. In present serum, spherical undifferentiated cells have attached to the plate, and differentiated into adherent cells with epithelial cell morphology Figure 1). In serum free condition, the expression levels of EpCAM and CD44 were significantly higher in spheroid than parent cells (P < 0.001) (Figure 2). The results have demonstrated that 92.3 ± 3.6% of these tumor spheroid cells were CD44+/EpCAM+, while parent cells only have expressed 38.4 ± 1.6% of CD44+/EpCAM+ markers. We have measured ALDH1 activity in colonospheres and parent cells-derived colonic HT-29 cell line. Interestingly, we have found that HT29 cells have exhibited substantially high levels of ALDH activity in the parent fractions in compared with the spheroid fractions. ALDH activity was 16.9 ± 1.2 in spheroid cells in comparison with 34.6 ± 2.3 in parental cells (P < 0.05) (Figure 3). We have evaluated the frequency of sphere-forming cells by doing an extreme limiting dilution analysis (ELDA) for spheroid and parent-derived HT-29 cells. The results have indicated that the frequency of spheroid formation in cell line -derived colonospheres were 6.4 fold higher than -derived the parent cells (P < 0.005) Table 2). The findings have suggested that colonospheres have formed by the colon cancer cell have enriched population of CSCs.
Moreover, ELDA has resulted for survey functional CSCs in colonospheres has revealed that colonospheres has marked increasing frequency of cells with sphere-forming ability. Thus, it has suggested under extreme limited dilution and in serum-free conditions, spheroids could only formed from stem-like cells. Consequently, the formation of colonospheres with a very small number of HT-29 cell line has demonstrated enrichment CSCs in colonospheres (2, 7, 20).
