
Biases in the rates at which duplications form in different genomic regions or a greater propensity for selection to favor duplications in specific functional classes can result in a bias in gene ontology (GO) categories among duplicated genes. We used DAVID GO analysis software to identify overrepresented functions among duplicate genes in D. yakuba and D. simulans. In D. yakuba, we observe 678 duplicated genes with orthologs in D. melanogaster. Overrepresented functional categories include immunoglobulins, extracellular matrix, chitins and aminoglycans, immune response and wound healing, drug and hormone metabolism, chorion development, chemosensory response and development, and morphogenesis (supplementary table S (Wong and Wolfner 2012) and immune response to pathogens (Lazarro and Clark 2012) are known for their rapid evolution, and therefore these genes are strong candidates to search for evidence of ongoing selective sweeps. Though mutational biases can produce similarities in GO categories, the overabundance of toxin metabolism genes and immune response peptides in both species as well as the overrepresentation of chemoreceptors, chitin cuticle genes, and oogenesis factors suggests that duplications are likely key players in rapidly evolving systems.
) with the following parameters, bwa aln Àl 13 Àm 50000000 ÀR 5000. The resulting paired-end mappings were resolved via the "sampe" module of bwa (bwa sampe Àa 5000 ÀN 5000 Àn 500), and the output was sorted and converted into a "bam" file using samtools version 0.1.18 (Li et al. 2009). In the alignment and resolution commands, Àl is the hash sized used for seeding alignments, and the ÀR, Àa, ÀN, and Àn refer to how many alignments are recorded for reads mapping to multiple locations in the reference. After the paired-end mapping resolution, the bam files from each lane of sequencing were merged into a single bam file sorted according to position along the reference genome. A second bam file, sorted by read name, was then created for use as input into our clustering software.
We used DAVID GO analysis software (http://david.abcc. ncifcrf.gov/, last accessed March 2013) to determine whether any functional categories were overrepresented at duplicated genes. Functional data for D. yakuba and D. simulans are not readily available in many cases, and thus we identified functional classes in the D. melanogaster orthologs as classified in Flybase. GO clustering threshold was set to low and significance was defined using a cutoff of EASE ! 1:0: The DAVID clustering software uses Fuzzy Heuristic Partitioning to identify genes with related functional terms at all levels of GO from cellular processes to known phenotypes.
