
After the intervention, balance measuring equipment (Good Balance, Metitur, Finland) was used to quantitatively measure each subject's balance ability 5). The balance test was performed by a physical therapist who had completed the course for the balance test method and was experienced in clinical practice for over three years. To measure balance function, the subject was instructed to stand on a triangle platform and maintain a symmetrical posture with the feet shoulder width apart. A visual fixed point was located in front of the subject to minimize head movements. The subject's arms were placed comfortably at the hip joints and the center of pressure (COP) was measured for 30 seconds in the standing posture with the eyes open. COP was measured three times and average values were calculated. The software also calculates several variables describing the quantitative aspects of individual's test behaviour, e.g. amount and speed of anterior-posterior and medial-lateral sway, amplitude of sway, the first moment of sway velocity (combined amplitude and velocity of the movement of the center of pressure), power spectrum analysis (FFT analysis) etc. Low score of anterior-posterior and medial-lateral sway implies excellent balance ability. The index of balance function score ranges between 0 and 100, and a higher score implies greater balance ability to perform the task. A reliable and valid measurement of the functioning of posture control mechanisms is a prerequisite for discovering the reasons for balance problems or evaluating the effects of treatment and rehabilitation.
The mean and SD were calculated for each variable. Before the intervention, differences in the general characteristics of the experimental group were analyzed by descriptive statistics. Variables were compared before and after training within experimental group using paired sample t-tests. The statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS 20.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA), and statistical significance was accepted for p values <0.05
