
All MRI data was obtained on the cine images using the MASS software package (Medis, Leiden, The Netherlands). On all the short-axis cine slices, the endocardial and epicardial borders were outlined manually on the end-diastolic and -systolic images. We divided the short axis into 12 equiangular segments to measure the LV segmental function, and the LV volumes and LV ejection fractions (LVEF) were calculated. We assessed delayed enhancement images and infarct size as previously described (14). The total infarct size was calculated as the percentage of the LV mass, and transmural extent of infarction was calculated by dividing the hyper-enhanced area by the total area of the predefined segment (%). A transmurality score was calculated in each patient, which was expressed as the sum of segments with > 75% infarcted myocardium as a percentage of the total number of segments scored. On the delayed enhancement images, the MO was defined as any region of hypo-enhancement within the hyper-enhanced infarcted area, and was included in the calculation of the total infarct size. The extent of MO was calculated in each patient, and measured percent by dividing number of MO segment by number of total segment. All MRI measurements of the LVEF and extent of MO and infarct size were reviewed by two independent blinded observers. The intra-class correlation coefficients for the intra-and inter-observer agreement for these parameters were all > 0.9.Intracoronary pressure parameters measurement Intracoronary pressure parameters were measured in each patient after PCI using previously described principles (7). With commercially available software (Radi Medical Systems, Uppslae, Sweden), the shaft of the pressure wire can act as a proximal thermistor, sensor near the tip of the wire simultaneously measured the pressure and temperature acting as a distal thermistor. Thermodilution technique was used to check the the transit time of room temperature when saline was injected down to coronary arteries (8). 3 mL aliquots of room temperature saline was administered to the coronary artery, and the resting mean transit time (baseline mean transit time [bTmn]) was measured. Steady state of maximal hyperemia was induced by intravenous infusion of adenosine (140 µg/kg/min). Three additional 3 mL aliquots of room temperature saline was injected, and the hyperemic mean transit time (hTmn) was measured. The simultaneous measurements of mean aortic pressure (Pa, by guiding catheter) and mean distal coronary pressure (Pd, by pressure wire) were also obtained during the resting state and maximal hyperemic state. The CFR thermo was calculated, dividing the resting hTmn by the bTmn. The IMR was defined as the simultaneously measured distal coronary pressure divided by the inverse of the hTmn (12, 13).
The values are reported as the mean ± SD or median (25th-75th percentiles) for continuous variables and as frequency for categorical variables. The correlations between the extent of MO and coronary physiologic parameters were calculated by using simple linear regression analysis to identify parameters which are independently associated with the extent of MO, being determined by cardiac MRI. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to assess the relationship between coronary hemodynamic pressure parameters and the presence of MO. A P value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All calculations were generated by SPSS 12.0 for Windows.
