
Observations, measurements, and digital imaging of morphological characters and isolation of cultures were performed using the same equipment and procedures as in Mejía et al. (2008).AxioVision v. 4.7.2.0 (Carl Zeiss Image Solutions, Carl Zeiss, New York, NY, USA) was used in conjunction with those methods to measure structures. Fresh specimens were mounted in water for microscopic observations; dried specimens were mounted in 3 % potassium hydroxide. Cultural characteristics were observed on Potato Dextrose Agar (PDA, Difco™, Becton, Dickinson & Co., Sparks, MD, USA) 7 d after plating as described in Mejía et al. (2008). Colony diameters were measured twice perpendicularly and averaged and thus are listed as average colony diameter (a.c.d.). Representative cultures of species considered in this study were deposited at the Centraalbureau voor Schimmelcultures (CBS, The Netherlands) as listed in Table 1.
The concatenated alignment was partitioned by gene and codon position for β-tubulin, rpb2, and 1-α using PAUP (Swofford 2002). The gene partitions were analysed for conflict with the partition homogeneity test (PHT) as implemented in PAUP (Swofford 2002) using the following settings: 100 homogeneity replicates, 10 random sequence addition replicates, and MULTREES off. Conflict among gene partitions was assessed by reciprocal bootstrap analyses (Reeb et al. 2004) using distance settings for each partition as
Specimen Culture Country Host Collector β-tubulin ITS rpb2 tef1-α (Posada & Crandall 1998) following the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC). Genes were first analysed individually and then as a combined alignment using maximum parsimony, Bayesian, and maximum likelihood analyses. Trees and bootstrap support of branches were estimated by MP analysis as in Sogonov et al. (2008) with all characters considered unordered with equal weight and an additional analysis with unordered characters weighted as follows: weight = 3 for first and second codon positions and weight = 1 for third codon position. Additionally, trees were estimated using Bayesian analysis with the program MrBayes v. 3.1.2 (Huelsenbeck & Ronquist 2001) as described in Sogonov et al. (2008) with sampling every 500 generations. Model settings for each gene were determined using the program MrModeltest v. 2 (Nylander 2004) and selected based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). The first 50 000 generations were discarded (burn-in period) based on comparison of tree likelihood scores. A 50 % majority rule consensus tree and a consensus phylogram were constructed from the trees saved after the burn-in period. The Bayesian posterior probabilities (PP) of nodes of the consensus trees are presented in Fig. 1. Trees were also estimated by Maximum Likelihood (ML) analysis using the program PAUP (Swofford 2002) as described in Sogonov et al. (2008) with Modeltest v. 3.7 (Posada & Crandall 1998) used to estimate the best model for the concatenated alignment. Maximum likelihood bootstrap analysis was not conducted.
