
Normally distributed quantitative variables are expressed as means and standard deviations. Nonparametric variables are expressed as median, minimum, and maximum values. Differences in the distribution of selected characteristics between patient groups were examined using the chi-square test and Fisher's exact test for categorical variables. The analysis was performed using Student's t-test for normally distributed continuous variables and the Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests for nonparametric variables. Variables associated with wall location and events in univariate analysis (P , 0.10) were included in the multivariate analyses. Continuous variables were used as dichotomous variables to facilitate clinical interpretation and standardize the multivariate analysis. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to determine the area under the curve (AUC) or the c statistic; the cut-off point for BNP and other continuous variables with the best predictive value was used for wall location and cardiac events. A multiple logistic regression model was used for the selection of variables predictive of involvement of the anterior wall and for the occurrence of in-hospital events during index admission. Cox multivariate regression was used for the selection of independent prognostic factors of mortality and any follow-up events. Two-sided P values , 0.05 were considered statistically significant. All statistical analyses were performed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) software version 11.0 for Windows. Table 1 presents clinical and demographic characteristics of the patients. The median BNP level at baseline was 214.5 pg/mL (range: 7 to 2291); moreover, 66% of patients had BNP $ 100 pg/mL (116 patients). The median peak troponin I level was 6.9 ng/mL (range: 1 to 150), and the median peak CK-MB level was 19 ng/mL (range: 2 to 500). The echocardiogram LVEF was normal ($ 55%) in 55 patients (32%), and the median LVEF was 47%. No statistically significant differences were observed between LVEF values regarding involvement of the anterior and lateral/inferior walls.
