
-/-mice and their wild-type littermates (male, 8-15 weeks old) were housed individually in lighttight, ventilated closets within a temperature-and humidity-controlled facility. The animals were entrained on a 12-h-light (~200 lux fluorescent light)-12-h-dark cycle at least two weeks and then transferred to DD. Locomotor activity was detected with passive (pyroelectric) infra-red sensors (FA-05 F5B; Omron) 24,57 and the data obtained were analysed with Clocklab software (Actimetrics) developed on MatLab (Mathworks). Free-running period was determined with either a χ 2 periodogram or a linear regression line fit to the activity onsets. The data used for period measurements were based on animal behaviours in a 14-day interval taken 3 days after the start of DD condition. For the pulse-induced shift experiments, mice put in DD were exposed to a 15 min light pulse at either CT14 or CT22. Phase shifts (delay at CT14, advance at CT22) were quantified as the time difference between regression lines of activity onset before and after the light application.
Per1-luc SCN slice culture. Per1-luc transgenic mice carry a firefly luciferase reporter gene linked to a 7.2 kb genomic DNA fragment covering the 5′ upstream region of the mouse Per1 gene 59. Per1-luc-Rgs16 -/-mice were generated by crossing Per1-luc transgenic mice and Rgs16 -/-mice. The SCN slices were prepared according to our standard method 6 and kept at 35 °C in a sealed 35 mm petri dish with 1 ml of the culture medium containing 1 mM luciferin. The bioluminescence from the cultured SCN was measured with a highly sensitive cryogenic CCD camera (Spectra Video SV16KV/CT: Pixelvision) equipped with a microscope (Axiovert 135TV: Carl Zeiss). Observed data of images were filtered through a median filter to eliminate cosmic-ray-induced background noise. The luminescence was recorded every 20 min. Periods of SCN luminescence recordings were estimated using Fast Fourier Transform-Nonlinear Least Squares analysis 60 as part of theBiological Rhythms Analysis Software System (BRASS). For all SCN to be compared, identical segments of raw SCN luminescence values, starting from the first trough since the start of the measurement, and containing at least four complete cycles, were analysed. BRASS has been developed by Dr Brown PE and co-workers and is available from http://millar.bio.ed.ac.uk/Downloads.html. Intraventricular infusion of THFA. THFA (Tocris) was continuously delivered to the SCN via osmotic pump as described 29. In brief, the tip of the infusion cannula (Alzet, Brain Infusion Kit 2) was directed stereotaxically to the SCN and the osmotic pump (Alzet, pump model 1002) containing 100 mM THFA (118 µg/day, infused at 0.24 µl/h) was placed in a subcutaneous pouch by surgery under anaesthesia. We performed the surgery during the subjective daytime (CT8-10) when the phase of circadian clock is considered irresponsive to light. Following the surgery, animals were returned to their home cages and maintained in DD.
