
The cell cycle, circadian clock and relative phase. Recent studies have shown that the circadian clock is coupled to the cell cycle processes through clockcontrolled genes, which may contain E-box or ROR elements in their promoters. Somewhat surprisingly, although we found that deregulation of PER2 has a strong effect on the induced transformation of MEFs and tumorigenesis; the gene expression changes in these clock-controlled genes are less profound in Per2 allele mutant MEFs. This leads us to think about their phase implication. Although the Nr1d1 transcripts displayed obvious phase shift and period length changes in these mutant MEFS, p21 transcripts displayed fixed 24-h-period oscillation with phase delay to the same extent, leading to a similar phase to that of Cyclin D. It indicates that in the wide-type MEFs, the opposite phases of p21 and Cyclin D are a result of coordination between circadian clock and cell cycle, with circadian clock adjusting transcription phase of p21 and the main driver of cell cycle. With the interaction of PER2, NR1D1 may be a critical circadian factor in exerting the phase adjusting function. At present, the physiological significance of the altered phases of these genes is unclear, and the phase shifting cannot explain all the phenotypes that are seen in these mutant mice. It is likely that modifier relative phases between the cycle genes influence features such as the number of transformation foci and the development of the tumor-associated fibroblasts. One of the possibilities comes from interfering with phase locking. Oscillation-based synchrony is the most energyefficient physical mechanism for temporal coordination. It occurs in many biological systems, including two oscillators of cell division and the circadian phase 31 or within a cell cycle oscillator through multiple regulatory interactions. 32 mutants 33 by crossing with p53 R175H/ þ mice. All mutant animals have been backcrossed for more than 10 generations onto a C57BL/6 inbred background. Low-, middle-and high-copy PER2 BAC transgenic mice were generated, as described previously. 15 Locomotor activity and activity pattern analyses were performed, as described previously. 34 X-ray and flow cytometer. Mice were radiated at the indicated ZT times with a single dose of 6 Gy (100 cGy/min) with a XHA600C Medical Electron Linear Accelerator (Shinva Medical Instrument Co., Ltd, Zibo, Shandong, China). Splenic lymphocytes were isolated at 6 h after irradiation, and red cells were removed using Gey's solution. For flow cytometer analyses, splenic lymphocytes were centrifuged at 1000 r.p.m., and the supernatants were thoroughly removed by aspiration and fixed in 70% ethanol. After incubation with 40 mg/ml propidium iodide and 100 mg/ml RNase at 37 1C for 30 min, the samples were analyzed with a Becton Dickinson FACScan flow cytometer using CellQuest software (Becton Dickinson, Auckland, New Zealand).
