
Male mice with global glucagon receptor knockout and wild-type mice (19) were provided by M.J.C. They were housed in individual cages with constant temperature and 12 h of light alternating with 12 h of darkness and fed Teklad 6% mouse/rat diet (Teklad, Madison, WI) with free access to water. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Research Advisory Committee of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at the North Texas Veterans Administration Medical Center. Chemical destruction of b-cells. b-cells were destroyed in 10-to 12-week-old Gcgr 2/2 and Gcgr +/+ mice with two intravenous injections of STZ (100 mg/kg body weight followed in 7 days by 80 mg/kg). Food intake, body weight, and blood glucose were measured weekly for 6 weeks. Plasma measurements. Blood glucose levels were measured with a glucose meter (Bayer Healthcare, Mishawka, IN). Plasma glucagon levels were measured using a Linco glucagon RIA kit (Linco Research, St. Charles, MO). Plasma insulin levels were measured using a rat/mouse insulin ELISA kit (Crystal Chem, Downers Grove, IL), and IGF-1 levels were measured using an IGF-1 ELISA kit (Immunodiagnostic Systems Ltd., Boldon, UK). Free fatty acids (FFAs) were measured with a nonesterified fatty acid (NEFA) kit (Waco Pure Chemical Industries, Osaka, Japan). Oral glucose tolerance test. After a 16 h fast, glucose (2 g/kg) was administered by gavage to the Gcgr mice. Blood was taken at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min intervals, and the blood glucose and plasma insulin were analyzed. Immunoblotting. Livers were lysed in radioimmunoprecipitation (RIPA) buffer (0.15mM NaCl/0.05mM TrisHCl, pH,7.2/1% Triton-X100/1% sodium deoxycholate/0.1% SDS) with 10 mg/mL leupeptin and 10 mg/mL aprotinin. Proteins were resolved by sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/ PAGE) and transferred to a membrane (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ). The blotted membrane was blocked in 1 3 Tris-buffered saline (TBS) containing 0.1% tween 20 (TBST) and 5% nonfat dry milk for 1 h at room temperature. After incubation with primary antibodies to cAMP-responsive element binding (CREB) and phospho-CREB (P-CREB) (1:1000; Cell Signaling Technology, Danvers, MA) or anti-g-tubulin at 4°C overnight, the membrane was washed with TBST buffer. Membranes were incubated with goat antirabbit or anti-mouse horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG for 1 h. The proteins were detected by using enhanced chemiluminescence detection system (GE Healthcare). Real-time quantitative PCR. Total RNA was extracted from the liver by Trizol isolation method (Life Technologies, Rockville, MD). All PCR reactions were performed in triplicate as previously described (25). The mRNA level was calculated by using standard curve method. Primer sequences are shown in Supplementary Table 1. Amino acid analysis of livers. Amino acids were analyzed in liver homogenates by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). All MS analyses used stable-isotope dilution with internal standards from Isotec, Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, and CDN Isotopes. Immunohistochemistry and b-cell mass measurement. The distal 20% of pancreata dissected from adult mice were fixed in Bouin's solution (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and dehydrated prior to paraffin embedding. Five micrometer contiguous paraffin sections were prepared on a Leica RM2155 rotary microtome for insulin and glucagon immunohistochemical staining, as previously described (26). Morphometric analysis for insulin cells was performed using Image-J image analysis software and particle analysis macro (Scion, Frederick, MD). The area of insulin staining in three sections of pancreas from 4-6 animals, relative to total sectional area examined, was quantified by monochromatic thresholding.
