
Building on previous findings involving a skin explant culture assay (Wong and Coulombe, 2003), we find that K6 / skin keratinocytes in primary culture show enhanced migration after scratch wounding (Fig. 1 A) and in transwell migration assays Fig. S1 A). Therefore, this phenotype is very robust and represents an intrinsic property of K6 / keratinocytes. The intracellular organization of keratin filaments appears normal in the absence of K6 Fig. S1 B). The 4G10 antibody used in our previous study (Wong and Coulombe, 2003) reacts with in vitro activated Src and immunoprecipitates Src and FAK from mouse skin keratinocytes (in a complex and/or individually; see Fig. S1, C and D). Collectively, the cell-autonomous enhancement in migration potential, the increased tyrosine phosphorylation of a 60-kD protein, and the largely intact organization Figure 1. Loss of K6 leads to SFK activation in woundinduced keratinocytes. (A) Migration of keratinocytes in scratch wounds. Distance and surface area of keratinocyte outgrowth were assessed by K17 staining (ImageJ). Dashed lines depict the wound margin. The arrow shows the direction of migration. Data (mean ± SEM) are fold change relative to WT. *, P < 0.001; **, P < 0.01. n = 3 independent sample pairs. Bar, 20 µm. (B) Western blot analysis of Src/SFK activity in K6 / , K14 / , and K17 / skin explant keratinocyte protein lysates. Loading was assessed via actin (digitonin-soluble fractions) or caveolin (triton-soluble fractions). Blots were performed at least three times from independent lysates. Migration of standards is given in kilodaltons. (C) Subcellular localization of activated Src/SFKs in WT or K6 / keratinocytes in primary culture. Bar, 25 µm. (insets) Higher magnifications of the boxed areas on the left to detail the leading edge. Bar, 7 µm. (D) Dual immunostaining for p-Y410 CAS and vinculin in WT or K6 / keratinocytes in primary culture (fibronectin-coated coverslips).
McGowan and Coulombe, 1998; Takahashi et al., 1998). By immunostaining, activated Src occurs in K6-expressing epidermal keratinocytes, both in cells actively migrating into the wound bed Fig. S2 B) or located behind the migrating front (not depicted), in wounded WT mouse skin. Activated Src shows a distinct staining pattern in many infiltrating, actively migrating keratinocytes that conveys its membrane proximity Fig. S2 C, arrows). Together, our ex vivo and in vivo findings on SFKs and key Src substrates with a defined role in cell motility strongly suggest that the migratory phenotype occurring in K6 / keratinocytes involves an increase in Src activity. Immunostaining also shows that activated Src is concentrated at focal adhesions in keratinocyte cultures from both genotypes, as inferred from comparing its localization with that of vinculin at the outer edge of cells (/ keratinocytes. IgG, normal rabbit IgG; Pre-I, K17 preimmune serum. (B) In vitro cosedimentation assays. p-Y416 Src, in vitro activated Src; P, pellet; S, supernatant. (C) Quantitation (mean ± SEM) of Src and Src CD cosedimentation with keratin filaments using ImageJ (signal ratio in pellet fraction/total band intensity; *, P < 0.0001). n = 11 independent trials for Src FL; n = 8 for Src CD. (D) Far-Western overlays using either Src or activated Src as ligands with their detection of membrane-bound proteins using specific antibodies. Ponceau stain assesses loading of the IF proteins tested. Vim, vimentin. (E) WT keratinocytes in primary culture transfected with GFP-K17 were assessed for subcellular localization of GFP and Src via confocal microscopy. Bar, 15 µm. (insets) Magnifications of the boxed area on the left. Arrows depict areas of colocalization. Bar, 5 µm. (F) Western blot analysis of Src activation and K6 induction in protein lysates of WT mouse ears treated with acetone (-) or TPA (250 ng/µl). Phospho-ERK 1/2 (p-ERK 1/2) was used as a positive control for TPA response; K5 and caveolin are loading controls. (G) Coimmunoprecipitation of Src and keratin from TPA-treated mouse ear (IgG). In all instances, similar results were achieved from at least three independent experiments. Migration of mass standards is given in kilodaltons. et al., 1988), and this could account for its greater affinity for type II keratins.
Cell migration is a highly spatially organized process (Martin, 1997), raising the prospect that the keratin-Src interaction may be segregated to a specialized subcellular compartment at or near the membrane. We focused on detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) as a location of interest as a result of its established role as a key site of Src regulation (Oneyama et al., 2008). Upon activation, Src is recruited to cholesterol-rich membrane microdomains (which are resistant to Triton X-100 extraction), where it phosphorylates C-terminal Src kinase (CSK)-binding protein (CBP; Kawabuchi et al., 2000). CSK is then recruited and inactivates Src via phosphorylation of its C-terminal tail (Oneyama et al., 2008). Keratin (Caruso and Stemmer, 2011) and vimentin (Berg et al., 2009) IF proteins have been found in DRMs. Likewise, we identified a fraction of the keratin pool, including K5, K6 Fig. 4, A and B), K14, and K17 (not depicted) as well as Src itself (Fig. 4 C), in DRM fractions from WT skin explant lysates. In contrast, lysates from K6 / keratinocytes showed reduced levels of keratin and Src in DRMs (Fig. 4, A-C). Two phosphorylated forms of Src also localized to DRM fractions in both WT and K6 / explant lysate (Fig. 4 D). Consistent with Confocal microscopy was used to relate the distribution of endogenous Src and transfected GFP-tagged keratin in nonmigrating WT keratinocytes in conventional primary culture. Both proteins showed a broad, pan-cytoplasmic distribution and partially colocalized (Fig. 2 E). Coimmunoprecipitation of Src and keratin from WT skin wounds in situ proved difficult as a result of the relatively small amount of activated K6/K17-expressing keratinocytes compared with other cell types (e.g., inflammatory cells and dermal fibroblasts), cellular debris, and the protein-rich scab. As an alternative, we used TPA (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate) treatment of mouse ear to induce both K6 expression and Src activation in epidermis (Fig. 2 F; Xian et al., 1997). Keratins coimmunoprecipitated with Src in this context (Fig. 2 G). These data establish that Src directly binds keratins and that K6, in particular, shows a consistently higher affinity for Src kinase whether it is active or not. Next, we set out to map the determinants mediating Src binding to keratins. Src comprises three major domains: SH3, SH2, and the CD (Fig. 3 A; Xu et al., 1997). Src's CD interacts poorly with keratin filaments (Fig. 2, B and C). In contrast, a His-GFP-Src N-terminal fusion comprising the SH3 and SH2 domains (Fig. 3 A) showed full binding to keratin IFs in cosedimentation assays (Fig. 3 B). Upon further dissection, the SH2 domain (residues 149-254) mediated strong binding to keratin IFs in copelleting assays (Fig. 3 B) and exhibited a higher affinity for type II keratins in Far-Western blots (Fig. 3 C). The SH3 domain did not bind keratin in either assay (Fig. 3, B and C). Direct binding to Src's SH2 domain does not involve phosphorylated tyrosine residues on keratins, given their recombinant bacterial source, implying that it is mediated by a novel binding determinant. A motif homologous to type I keratins has been recognized in this specific region of Src (Tachibanaand His-GFP-SH3 fusions with K6/K17 filaments, detected using GFP antibody. P, pellet; S, supernatant. (C) Far-Western overlays using His-GFP-SH2 or His-GFP-SH3 as ligands, detected with GFP antibody. Ponceau staining shows loading for proteins tested. Vim, vimentin. (D) FL Src or Src CD was equilibrated with or without K6/K17 filaments before activation via ATP-dependent autophosphorylation (p-Y416 Src/SFK). Total Src (or CD) levels are shown for comparison. (E) Quantification of Src FL or Src CD sequestration by K6/K17 filaments. Values (mean ± SEM; ImageJ) are reported as activity ratio and calculated by relating band intensity for active Src/Src CD in the presence of K6/K17 to active Src/Src CD band intensity in the absence of K6/K17. *, P < 0.01. In all instances, similar results were achieved from at least three independent experiments. Migration of mass standards is given in kilodaltons. et al., 2006; Todorović et al., 2010). Plakoglobin, in particular, is a known Src target (Miravet et al., 2003) and reacts with the monoclonal antibody 4G10 (unpublished data). The molecular mass of plakoglobin (80 kD) corresponds to a tyrosinephosphorylated epitope that is elevated in lysates from migrating K6 / keratinocytes (Wong and Coulombe, 2003). Others have recently shown that plakoglobin and other desmosomal proteins are enriched in DRM fractions (Delva et al., 2008; Brennan et al., 2011), as we observed in WT and K6 / mouse keratinocytes (unpublished data). These findings raise the distinct possibility of plakoglobin's contribution, perhaps in conjunction with other keratin-binding proteins (e.g., plectin) to the recruitment of keratin proteins to lipid rafts and/or to regulation of Src in migrating keratinocytes.
All samples were fixed with 4% PFA in PBS before immunostaining. Stained coverslips or slides were mounted in Tris-buffered Fluoro-Gel (Electron Microscopy Sciences). Src and GFP-K17 colocalization was imaged by confocal microscopy (at room temperature with an Axiovert 200 microscope equipped with the 510 META module; Carl Zeiss). Images were taken using the 63× objective (1.4 NA Plan-Apochromat oil objective), and acquisition was performed via LSM 510 software (Carl Zeiss). Goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor 594 (Invitrogen) was used to image Src staining, and goat anti-mouse secondary antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488 was used to enhance GFP signal (Invitrogen). p-Y416 Src and K6 staining in WT mouse wounds were imaged by confocal microscopy (Axiovert 200 microscope equipped with the 510 META module at room temperature). Images were taken using the 20× (0.75 NA Plan-Apochromat air) and 40× (1.3 NA Plan-NEOFLUAR oil) objectives, and acquisition was performed via LSM 510 software. Goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488 was used in each case. Cell stains used to assess Src and focal adhesion protein localization were performed from WT and K6 / keratinocytes in primary culture seeded on fibronectin (EMD)-coated coverslips (final concentration of 10 µg/ml and diluted in 1× PBS). p-Y416 Src/SFK, vinculin, p-Y925 FAK, p-Y410 CAS, and p-Y118 paxillin immunostainings were imaged on a fluorescent microscope (Axio Observer.Z1; Carl Zeiss) at room temperature. Images were taken using the 63× objective (1.4 NA Plan-Apochromat oil objective) and acquired via AxioVision software with a camera (AxioCam MRm) and saved as raw data files (Carl Zeiss). Secondary antibodies conjugated to Alexa Fluor 594 or 488 (Invitrogen) were used to image. Analysis of all images was performed using the ImageJ freeware.
Culture of newborn mouse skin explants was performed as previously described (Mazzalupo et al., 2002; Wong and Coulombe, 2003; Bernot et al., 2004). In brief, 4-mm punch biopsies were cultured in mouse keratinocyte (mKER) medium for 8 d. The tissue moiety (original punch) was removed, cellular outgrowths were collected into lysis buffer (Wong and Coulombe, 2003), and cytosolic and membrane fractions were prepared as previously described (Osmanagic-Myers and Wiche, 2004). Cells were incubated in the presence of 0.01% digitonin and spun down, and pellets were resuspended in 0.5% Triton X-100-containing lysis buffer. Quantitative outgrowth assays were performed under the same conditions using 2-mm punch biopsies, except that on day 3, explants were treated with mitomycin C (Sigma-Aldrich) for 2 h to irreversibly inhibit DNA replication and mitosis (Wong and Coulombe, 2003; Bernot et al., 2004) and then with (or without) PP2 (Life Technologies) at various concentrations. PP2 treatments continued from day 3 to day 6, at which point both punch and outgrowth were fixed and stained with Giemsa dye (Sigma-Aldrich). Stained outgrowths were scanned, and the outgrowth area was measured using the ImageJ freeware (National Institutes of Health), as previously described (Wong and Coulombe, 2003; Bernot et al., 2004), by subtracting the area of the punch (square pixels) from the total area of punch and outgrowth (square pixels). Student's t test was applied to determine probability values.
Newborn mouse skin keratinocytes were seeded for primary culture in twoor four-well chamber slides (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and allowed to reach confluency as a monolayer (24 h after plating). Cells were then serum starved overnight. At 48 h of culture, monolayers were scratched with a P200 pipette tip, and the mKER medium was replaced. Keratinocytes were allowed to migrate for 24 h and then fixed in 4% PFA for analysis. Both WT and K6 / primary keratinocytes were imaged via K17 immunostaining (Mazzalupo et al., 2002; Wong and Coulombe, 2003; Bernot et al., 2004). Area and distance of outgrowth were quantified using the freewareImageJ. Area of outgrowth was computed as the area of initial wound minus the area of wound remaining at 24 h, whereas distance of outgrowth is the straight-line distance from the wound edge to the leading cell periphery along the line and was measured multiple times for every wound sample to correct for potential local differences in keratinocyte migration. Outgrowth was then expressed relative to WT values, and Student's t test analysis was used to calculate probability values.
Src activity was quantified from Western blot signals using the ImageJ freeware to measure band intensity and normalize it to caveolin to adjust for loading. The final data for K6 / samples are reported relative to WT. Src activity was also quantified at the leading edge of keratinocytes in immunostained preparations using ImageJ. The leading edge of WT or K6 / cells was traced in ImageJ and quantified for mean pixel intensity and surface area. Values reported are a ratio of mean pixel intensity at the leading edge per area of leading edge. In cosedimentation assays in vitro involving reconstituted keratin filaments, the fraction of bound proteins (Src FL or Src CD) was quantified using ImageJ in a similar manner, except that signal intensity of pelleted Src was divided by total Src signal intensity (total found in supernatant and pellet fractions). Similarly, Src's activity status in this in vitro setting was quantitated in the same fashion, except that an activity ratio was obtained by relating the intensity of the phospho-Src signal in presence and absence of keratin filaments.
