
Diagnosis ▸ Literature reviews ▸ Individual interviews ▸ Focus group interviews ▸ Participant observations ▸ 10-15 service users/next of kin ▸ 15-20 healthcare professionals and service managers ▸ 5-10 key actors Action planning ▸ Reference group involved in providing input to training programme development ▸ 10 representatives from the involved municipalities, health professionals, service users, next of kin, technology developers Implementation ▸ Recruitment of health professionals and service users/next of kin ▸ 2 prepilot focus group interviews with healthcare professionals and service users before testing the training programmes ▸ 20 nurses/enrolled nurses ▸ 20 service users/next of kin Evaluation ▸ 2 focus group interviews with healthcare professionals (before and after participating in the pilot) ▸ 2 focus group interviews with service users and next of kin (before and after training session) ▸ Observation of the training sessions for healthcare professionals and for service usersfeedback between the five phases in our cyclic approach to ensure continuous corrections and improvement. All transcribed data material from interviews and observations will be uploaded and systemised by using the software program QSR International NVivo V.10. 39 The data analysis is a combination of induction and deduction. In the diagnosis phase we will apply induction to establish the overall impression of the data material according to Malterud's 40 systematic text condensation approach. This will involve the Norwegian speaking members of the research team. All team members will individually read the data material and come together in an analysis seminar to discuss the main themes 40 emerging from the data and which are most important to incorporate in the training programme content and methods. This total impression along with the systematic literature reviews will form the basis for the action planning phase where the training programmes will be designed. The analysis of the data material from the implementation and evaluation phases will also be analysed according to the systematic text condensation approach. This analysis is deductive and theory 40 driven as it will apply predefined categories based on Alvarez et al's 37 theoretical framework IMTEE. Research quality in terms of transferability to other contexts is key in qualitative research. 38 Generalisability in the sense of exact replication of results across studies is not the goal of action research inquiries. According to Susman and Evered, 32 the basis of generalisation in action research is narrow, situational and bound by context. 32 This is also true for our study; however action research encourages transferability of project outcomes to similar settings when appropriate. Depending on contextual similarity, it is possible to judge the relevance of findings from our study and whether they can be applied to another study setting. There is a potential conflict between our purposive sampling and transferability of results to other settings. This will be addressed by providing details of the context in which our research occurs in our publications. Also, we will collect data about our sample regarding for example, their experience with technology, age, gender and education, which we consider of relevance for other studies and populations. This information will also be provided in our publications and enable a better ability to evaluate if our results are transferable to other contextual settings. 38
