
We conducted a survey of 277 patients who scored over 13 on the Glasgow coma scale who received treatment at our institution after minor head trauma in the period from January 2012 to December 2013. Patients were enrolled prospectively and their medical records were reviewed retrospectively. All the patients did not require surgery at the time of their arrival. During the follow-up period, the 20 patients who required surgery to treat CSDH were designated as the patient group, while the remaining 257 patients who did not develop CSDH after minor head trauma and completed treatment were selected as the control group. Head trauma, out of many other factors, was set as the controlled variable. Age, gender, and the history of diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension, cerebral infarction, cardiac disease, hematologic disease, and epilepsy were investigated as the factors contributing to progression of CSDH after minor trauma. The medication history of antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents was also surveyed, as well as the smoking and drinking habits of subjects. The presence of acute subdural hematoma (AS-DH) in the convexity, accompanying hemorrhage and encephalomalacia, and the maximum distance from skull to cerebral parenchyma Figure 1) were investigated by examining the patients' initial computerized tomography (CT) scans. In our study, cardiac disease included valve disease, arrhythmia, and ischemic heart disease. The diseases that could cause coagulopathy, such as hematological malignancies, were defined as hematologic disease. In cases where the patients' initial brain CT scans showed cerebral contusion, subarachnoid hemorrhage, epidural hemorrhage, or intracerebral hemorrhage, we defined the finding as an accompanying hemorrhage. The statistical analysis was performed using Window SPSS version 20.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Statistical analyses included chi-square test, Fisher's exact test and multivariate logistic regression analysis to assess the relationship between CSDH and various factors. Differences were considered statistically significant if the p value was less than 0.05.
