
The functional impact on flowering-time regulation of the three conserved elements was tested in a promoter FIG. 3. Continued iterations. Arabidopsis thaliana co-10 null mutant was complemented with cDNA of COL1, COL2, AeCO, AeCOL2, and ThCOL fused to 3xHA-tag expressed from pSUC2 (C) or pCO (D). Flowering time (mean total leaf number AE SD) was examined in independent homozygous transgenic lines (T 3 ) in LD conditions. Col-0, co-10, and homozygous pCO::3xHA:CO, pAeCO::3xHA:CO (from fig. 1C) and pSUC2::3xHA:CO lines are shown as controls. Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences in leaf number (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.001) compared with Col-0 (wt).To identify cis-element motifs associated with CO expression pattern, 6-10 bp motifs overrepresented in the ten Brassicaceae CO promoters were sought using the Multiple Em for Motif Elicitation (MEME) tool (Bailey et al. 2009). The most enriched sequences (present 73 Â in the ten promoters) contain the E-Box (CANNTG, fig. 4D), which is the binding site for FLOWERING BHLH (FBH) transcription factors that activate CO transcription in A. thaliana (Ito et al. 2012). The second most abundant motif (70Â) contains the extended DOF binding site (AAAGTG, fig. 4B) described earlier. The third motif identified (40Â) carries a core sequence (GGAC CA) that is bound by TCP transcription factors (Schommer et al. 2008; fig. 4C) and is part of the CMM. In order to investigate whether the identified cis-elements represent a novelty in CO promoters, the abundance of these elements was determined in CO, COL1 and COL2 promoters (À4 kb) from five Brassicaceae as well as subgroup Ia COL genes from six non-Brassicaceae species fig. 4B-D). Available mRNA data for these COL genes indicated that they showed an expression pattern similar to COL1/2 of A. thaliana (Hecht et al. 2005, 2007; Bohlenius et al. 2006; Almada et al. 2009; Gonz alez- Schain et al. 2012; Hsu et al. 2012; Kloosterman et al. 2013). CO promoters contained significantly more DOF and TCP binding sites compared with the COL gene promoters of Brassicaceae COL genes as well as those from other species and significantly more than the CO promoters shuffle control fig. 4B and C). Additionally, the CO promoters contained more E-Boxes compared with the shuffle control and nonBrassicaceae. No significant difference in the expression levels of these mRNAs was detected, indicating that, in contrast to CO, the COL1 and COL2 genes are not regulated by CDFs. These data suggest that CDF regulation of CO is either a novelty that arose in the Brassicaceae or that it was present in the last common ancestor of CO, COL1 and COL2 but was lost in COL1 and COL2 during the process of subfunctionalization. Another indication that DOF regulation is a novelty associated with the CO gene came from further comparison of the cdf1235 mutant and wt (Col-0). In wt A. thaliana, CO mRNA levels are efficiently downregulated in the morning to ensure the gene is not transcribed when plants are exposed to light early in the day. The CDFs contribute to this repression of CO, because in the cdf1235 mutant CO mRNA levels are generally higher (Fornara et al. 2009). However, if the cdf1235 mutant seedlings grown in LDs remain in darkness at subjective dawn, even higher CO mRNA levels are observed than if the plants are transferred to light fig. 6A). This suggests that CO transcription is also repressed at dawn by a second mechanism that is independent of CDFs but dependent on light. This light-dependent mechanism is not detected in wt plants because it is overridden by CDF activity that strongly represses CO transcription. A similar effect of light is detected for ThCOL mRNA fig. 6B) Ledger et al. 2001). These data indicate that ThCOL, such as COL1 and COL2, is not repressed by CDF transcription factors at dawn but by exposure to light, and that this regulation can also be detected for the CO promoter if CDF activity is removed in the cdf1235 mutant.
Sequences for protein alignment were either identified by Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) search or predicted from genomic and cDNA sequencing data (Arabis alpina, Ae. arabicum, and C. papaya) and accession numbers can be found in supplementary table S2, Supplementary Material online. For the phylogenetic analysis of CO promoter, intergenic region of CO (including its start codon) and the upstream gene COL1 were used for analysis (except for ThCOL where no COL1 is present). Arabis alpina CO promoter was assembled from short reads identified by BLAST search of the preliminary genome assembly (MPIPZ, Cologne). Sequences were assembled using SeqMan Pro (DNASTAR Lasergene Version 8.0.2). CO Promoters from Capsella rubella, Nasturtium officinale, and Sisymbrium officinale were amplified from genomic DNA (kindly provided by Markus Berns, MPIPZ, Cologne) using degenerate primers that anchor in COL1 and CO, respectively (COL1 Fw: TGACACMGGATATG GAATTG; CO Rv: TGGCAGAGTGRACTTGAGCA). The intergenic region between COL1 and CO orthologs was subsequently sequenced by primer walk. The CO promoter of Ae. arabicum was identified by BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) screen using an CO probe (BAC probe Fw: ACTGGT GGTGGATCAAGAGG; Rv: TCTTGGGTGTGAAGCTGTTG) and sequenced by primer walk from two independent BACs. Accession numbers for CO promoters used in the alignment can be found in supplementary table S3, Supplementary Material online. For the comparison of ciselement composition, 5 0 -sequences (4,000 bp including the start codon) were identified in publicly available genomes. Accession numbers are given in supplementary
Phylogenetic tree for relationship of subgroup Ia COL protein sequences was inferred using the Neighbor-Joining method in MEGA5 with bootstrap values from 10,000 replicates (Saitou and Nei 1987; Tamura et al. 2007). Substitution rates were calculated from a codon alignment of the respective CDS followed by calculation of substitution rates corrected by Jukes-Cantor method using SNAP v1.1.1 (Rodrigo and Learn 2001, Chapter 4, p. 55-72). CO promoter and COL locus alignments were performed using LAGAN algorithm on mVISTA (Mayor et al. 2000; Brudno et al. 2003). Output is displayed as conservation in per cent in 100-bp sliding windows to the corresponding reference sequence. Alignments are displayed using ClustalX 2.0.11 (Larkin et al. 2007). For motif identification in CO promoters, data sets were submitted to MEME motif identification tool (Version 4.6, Bailey and Elkan 1994) and searched for 6-10 bp motifs that can occur in any number. WebLogo was used to present conserved motifs (Version 2.8.2; Crooks et al. 2004). For statistical comparison of cis-element number, the À 4 kb sequence beginning with the start codon was used from the indicated genes. Cis-elements were counted using customized Perl script (supplementary material, Supplementary Material online, Geo Velikkakam James, MPIPZ, Cologne). Shuffle control data sets were generated with the algorithm "shuffle" (100 times, Version 1.02, Press et al. 2007, p. 281). To test for statistical differences in cis-element analysis and flowering time, one-way analysis of variance and Tukey test were performed using SigmaStat 3.5 (Systat Software).
