
Based on our former studies, we built two risk calculators in the training cohort (n = 1059) from 2006 to 2010. 11 Risk calculator 1 (RC1) was built according to the rules of a logistic regression model based on age, result of DRE, PV, logPSA (logarithm of PSA), %fPSA, and TRUS result. Risk calculator 2 (RC2) was built according to the rules of a logistic regression model based on age, result of DRE, logPSA (logarithm of PSA), and %fPSA. The dichotomous variables (TRUS and DRE results) were considered as 1 for positive and 0 for negative in the risk calculators. Then, we evaluated the performances of PSA, PCPT risk calculator, and Huashan RC1 and RC2 for predicting PCa and high-grade PCa in the training cohort, the validation cohort and their subgroups (e.g., population with PSA ranging from 2.0 ng ml −1 to 20.0 ng ml −1 and population with PSA ranging from 2.0 ng ml −1 to 10.0 ng ml −1). In the current study, the PCPT risk calculation was performed using the available formula. 9 PSA was also used as a reference prediction tool in our analysis. The high-grade PCa was defined as PCa with a Gleason Score ≥8 according to the Chinese Urological Association (CUA) guideline. 12 Evaluation of the PCPT risk calculator was excluded in high-grade PCa in the criteria for high-grade PCa in the CUA guidelines 12 and EAU (European Association of Urology) guidelines. Since the epidemiological database was not well established in China, the risk factor of family history in PCPT risk calculator was ignored in the analysis. The baseline characteristics (age, prostate volume, logPSA, and %fPSA) between two cohorts were compared using t-test for continuous variables or Chi-squared test for categorical variables (DRE result, TRUS result, and PCa detection rate under 6-or 10-core). Z-test was performed to evaluate the differences among area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs) of the two risk calculators, PCPT risk calculator and PSA. Two-sided test with P = 0.05 was used. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 19.0 (Statistical Product and Service Solutions, IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, USA).
