
The growth of MDA-MB-231 derived tibial lesions was assessed by longitudinal bioluminescence imaging. The mice were imaged using IVIS spectrum following an intra-peritoneal injection of D-luciferin solution (PerkinElmer, USA) (150 mg/kg body weight) under gas anesthetic. Bioluminescence images were taken 20 min after D-luciferin injection and acquired until the peak signal was reached. Photon emission was quantified using Living Image software and graphed according to the average radiance (photons/s/cm 2 /sr).
Histological analysis of tumor burden was performed on hematoxylin and eosin (H & E) stained sections of tibias. Imagescope software (Aperio) was used to quantify tumor area in mm 2. Tumor burden was expressed as the proportion of tumor occupying the total area. Tissue fixation and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining were carried out as previously described. [13] The proliferative index in the bone metastatic lesions was assessed by staining with a Ki67 antibody (1 μg/ml; Abcam, Toronto, ON, Canada). Anti-Cleaved-Caspase 3 staining (0.2 μg/ml dilution; Cell Signaling, Whitby, ON, Canada) was performed to quantify apoptosis within the bone lesions. Following incubation with the primary antibody, secondary biotin-conjugated antibody (Jackson Laboratories) was applied for 30 min. After washing with distilled water, slides were developed with diaminobenzidine (Dako) as the chromogen. All slides were counterstained using Harris haematoxylin before being scanned using a Scanscope XT digital slide scanner (Aperio). Quantification was performed by analyzing bone metastases with Imagescope software (Aperio) using positive pixel count algorithm for Ki67 and Cleaved Caspase-3 staining. For quantification of Ki67 and Cleaved Caspase-3 staining, positively stained nuclei were represented as a percentage of total nuclei per field. the difference in μ-CT markers, tumor burden and immunohistochemistry staining. Repeated measures two-way ANOVA with interactions was used to calculate the difference in bioluminescence data between the two groups. A p-value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
